We are in liberation day 2.0.
>> Marcus would have been relieved to get
past the tariff issue and it seems like
it's going to be front and center again.
>> Right now it's a bit of wait and watch.
A high tariff scenario is where we're
going to be.
>> I don't think it changes the overall
narrative for the marketplace.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, President Trump preparing
to address the nation.
>> Supreme Court's ruling on tariffs
is deeply disappointing. They also are a
frankly disgrace to our nation. Those
justices, I can destroy the country. I
can do anything I want, but I can't
charge $1. The Supreme Court justices
who ruled against the policy striking it
down. Are they still invited to your
State of the Union?
>> Honestly, I couldn't care less if they
come.
>> Getting set to face down Supreme Court
justices following their headline
ruling, leaving the White House,
threatening trade partners with a fresh
round of tariffs is hitting a stock
market already weighed down by another
wave of AI anxiety. The hits keep on
coming.
>> So, trying to decipher what happened
yesterday. Good luck, right? How much is
this concerns about any kind of
uncertainty tied to a new tariff regime
that maybe is 15% but for now is just
10%. At the same time, there was a post
by Catrini7, this research firm that
everyone pinpointed as the reason why a
lot of markets in particular software
stocks were down even further. It was
literal fiction talking about a 10%
unemployment rate hypothetically in the
next year or two. And yet it really
ignited the fears of some sort of
dystopian future on the heels of AI
promise. enjoyed the mental exercise
Sunday evening reading the note, didn't
we?
>> I did too. I thought it was fantastic.
>> I thought it was fantastic. Didn't
expect it to lead to the sector level
disruption that we saw play out in
Monday's session. But here we are at the
index level. Not spooked at all. Still
2% away from alltime highs on the S&P
500. Notable where the calm is 10-year
bond yields near the lows of the year
and just kind of anchored sticky around
that level at the moment.
>> To me, that's important. Before the
tariff ruling, we were saying that if
those AIPA justifications for tariffs
were overturned, what you would get is a
sell-off in bonds because ultimately
that was the revenues that was going
into supporting a lot of the bull case
for bonds. That wasn't the case. And
actually, these came out as the haven.
Why? Because in this dystopian future
that 7 laid out, unemployment is going
to spike and the Fed's going to have to
respond. There is going to be some sort
of policy response in that dystopian
fiction world. I would have to imagine
Nvidia would do very well, which they
did okay yesterday, but so did Micron,
AMD, and Broadcom. They all fell
yesterday. So did Microsoft and Google
and Amazon and Meta. So try to put this
all together. I really I don't know. I'm
having I'm having trouble.
>> And he's from Nvidia, of course. Later
on this week, the main event later on
this evening, the president of the
United States addressed the nation.
Trade very much the center of the focus,
I think, for a lot of people in
financial markets. Affordability as
well. If there is a legitimate criticism
of the Supreme Court, why did it take so
long? And if there is a legitimate
criticism of the White House, why did
you do it this way?
>> That's the question I've been asking. If
you knew that this was going to be
potentially on dubious legal footing,
why didn't you do the investigations for
232s and 301's, which you're going to
end up with in the middle to the end of
this year from the very beginning? I
think you can see the president is
incredibly frustrated whether it's his
truth social post or the Friday press
conference he gave with the Supreme
Court justices which by the way are
going to be sitting front row today when
he gives the state of the union address
tonight and I imagine this president he
calls it a weave is going to go off
script at some moments and maybe
potentially call out individuals like he
did Friday evening after they came out
with that IPA rule
>> I think it's fair to say it's going to
be box office a little bit later on this
evening look out for that also tracking
the financials this morning on the S&P
just had their worst first day since
last April. JP Morgan this morning.
Firmer by a quarter of 1%. Jamie Diamond
of JP Morgan with this to say. I see a
couple of people doing some dumb things.
They're just doing dumb things to create
net interest income.
>> So, a couple of things here. First of
all, Jamie Diamond is often chief risk
officer and chief prognosticator about
potential risks out there and this sort
of fits in line with that role. Second
of all, the big banks have not been as
involved in private credit. So, it can
be a more open uh and open ball field to
really go after private credit,
especially with some of the software
concerns. And third, there are some dumb
things, right? Let's be honest. The idea
of chasing retail funds in uh for
long-term private illquid loans has
already been proven to have some
potential pitfalls. Nonetheless, is it
having the potential for 2008 types of
consequences? Very few people seem to
think that. He also was talking about
how the surprise there's always a
surprise in in the credit cycle. Sort of
what you're saying. there's someone
always doing maybe something that could
be viewed as dumb. He goes on to say
it's really the surprise of what
industry gets affected. Quote, "This
time around it might be sw soft software
because of AI." Well, obviously we've
been talking about that for weeks, so
not exactly something that's breaking
news or headline worthy from Jamie
Diamond.
>> Equity futures this morning doing better
up by a quarter of 1% on the S&P 500.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth with
markets seeking stabilization. Dorene
Edelman of Loenstein Sandler previewing
President Trump's address tonight and
Jane Foley of Rabber Bank saying an
early guard exit is the best case for
the euro. We begin this hour with stocks
edging higher following the latest
AIdriven sell-off. Cameron Dawson of New
Edge Wealth writing the following. The
more we see defensives rally and
cyclical stumble, the more challenging
near-term new highs become. Cameron
joins us now for more. Cam, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> For much of this year, there's been some
confusion. Are we starting to see a
cyclical rotation? Is this cyclical
offense? Now it just feels like AI
defense and nothing else. Is that fair?
>> I think that is fair because if you if
you break the cyclical rotation into the
fact that there are the AI
infrastructure beneficiaries, certainly
there is a cyclical favorite to that.
Look at the rally that we've seen in
industrials. They're trading at 27 times
forward. A name like Caterpillar trading
at 32 times forward. That's typically
something that we would la as being a
sign of a cyclical upswing. But then
look at the financials. The financials
breaking down certainly challenges this
notion that you are seeing a broad
cyclical upswing. For us, the biggest
most important ratio we've been watching
is equal weight consumer discretionary
versus staples. This ratio has been the
reason to be optimistic about the US
economy and the US consumer over the
last three years. It's broken down to
start the beginning of the year. It's
still technically in an uptrend, but
it's not looking so hot. So if we start
seeing lower highs and lower lows in
that ratio, equal weight discretionary
versus staples, we think that it would
cause us to become a bit more cautious
about the US consumer and thus a bit
more cautious about the US economy and
thus a bit more cautious about US risk
assets.
>> Do you think the bond market is
beginning to speak to the same theme?
>> I think that that is the question. Is
the tenure near 4% because we're going
to have a productivity miracle that
brings inflation lower and allows the
Fed to cut interest rates or is the
tenure at 4% because people are seeking
safety. That's a really big distinction
and I think a very much open question.
How much self-fulfilling pain is going
to be triggered by the by the fear that
people have in markets. And I'm saying
this because the wealth effect was one
of the main reasons why spending
consumer spending had held up as much as
it did. you start to see concerns that
for example even with the software route
that this is going to cause the lending
costs to go up and that's going to crimp
the industry regardless of whether there
actually is some sort of existential
fear. I'm thinking of FDR. The only
thing we have to fear is fear itself. I
mean how much is that actually a
self-fulfilling prophecy right now?
>> I think that that is the biggest
question and we raised that as part of
our outlook of worrying about the fact
that we've been in a a feedback loop
positive when we think about markets in
the US economy. Stronger markets have
led to a stronger consumer. mostly in
the high-end consumer, which of course
is the top of the K driving all of that
spending. If that positive feedback loop
turns into a negative feedback loop,
where weaker markets then cause people
to pull back on spending, which cause
further weakness in markets, then that
could be the source of volatility. So, I
don't think that we can underestimate
just how important the wealth effect has
been allowing this overall economy to
levitate. Just look at the fact that you
see real personal consumption growing by
about a percent and a half since April
and real personal income falling by half
a percent. The gap between that two
between income and wages is effectively
the fact that people are spending down
savings as well as benefiting from the
wealth effect. Yesterday, Prizer of JP
Morgan was on and she was saying that
one thing about the tariff ruling is it
introduced more uncertainty and could
potentially crimp hiring on the margins
by small businesses adding to this sort
of weight on the overall economy. Do you
see that as a likely outcome? Do you see
this as part of the reason why people
are foreseeing some weakness in the
underlying economy?
>> I think that is already the outcome. If
you look at the fact that US
corporations, large corporations were
able to expand margins last year in the
face of tariffs, which we know were born
by US corporations and consumers, the
vast vast majority of it was. The way we
think that they did that is cutting back
on labor costs. If your input costs are
going up in one place, you will turn to
another place in order to be able to
defend your margins. So they have been
pulling back on hiring whether it's
allowing people to shrink the work for
work workforce through attrition but
also turning to firing. So if we think
about the consumers bearing the brunt of
of tariffs they've actually had a double
whammy. Not only have they seen prices
go up, but they've also seen a weaker
labor market, which brings us back to
that point of falling real wage growth
because you get the pressure on wages
coming lower because of the looser labor
market and you get the higher prices and
that's how we get to this state where
you have seen real wage growth fall.
Sticking with tariffs for a moment, John
mentioned how the 10-year yield is
snoozy. There's nothing really going on.
Will that change if we get refunds, $170
billion worth?
>> Yeah. Let's bring us back to the third
quarter of 2023. Treasury Secretary
Yelen increases coupon issuance by a
near9 billion dollars. What does the
long end of the cur curve do? It goes up
by 150 basis points. So a really big
question is if you see refunds, if you
see a lower revenue from the tariffs,
does that put the treasuries back into a
corner to have to increase coupon
issuance? Now, Treasury Secretary
Bessant knows this very well and he
wants to avoid increased coupon issuance
at all costs, but we do know that this
bond market probably won't welcome it if
they are forced to do so. Why is it not
pricing it in now? Because this is
likely a very serious scenario towards
the end of the year.
>> Well, because Bessant has talked about
wanting to keep issuance still towards
the front of the curve. And the fact
that you still have money market
balances making new highs suggests that
there still is demand for those bills at
the front end of the curve. If we were
to see interest rates at the front end
start to fall further, I think it's
important to watch those money market
balances because they've been the ones
who have been hoovering up this bill
issuance. If those start to trend lower
simply because you're seeing less income
coming from high short-term rates, that
could be a sign that maybe the Treasury
has run its course and being able to
push in issuance towards the front end.
>> That's certainly the source of comfort
right now, the bond market. It's
basically what everybody's writing
about. The consensus view is that this
will take one, a long time to play out,
and two, if you have to deliver that
money back, it's all going to be at the
front end. It's all going to be through
bills.
>> And the truth is that Scott Besson has
come out and essentially said this. We
have no idea. It could take years. It
could take never and essentially we're
going to do everything that we can and
he's already shown himself to be chief
trader in charge. So at a certain point
I think people put a lot of faith in
Scott Besson to maneuver this in a way
that's not going to be disruptive.
>> Well, Michael of JP Morgan joining us to
the next stand. No doubt we'll have that
conversation with him. Cam's going to
stick with us. Cameron Dawson there of
New Edge Wealth. Equities doing okay,
positive by 210 on the S&P 500 with an
update on news worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Jihara Alan with
more. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. Home Depot earnings just out.
Shares are up 4% in the pre-market. The
company reporting fourth quarter
earnings that beat Wall Street
estimates. Home Depot CFO saying, quote,
"Everything is moving very slowly in the
right direction, but we haven't seen a
catalyst for a change in home
improvement demand."
Meanwhile, JP Morgan Chase CEO Jamie
Diamond telling investors he's starting
to see parallels to the era before the
2008 financial crisis when a rush to
make loans ended disastrously.
Unfortunately, we did see this in ' 05
and ' 06 in ' 07. Almost the same thing.
The rising tide lifting all boats.
Everyone was making a lot of money. I
don't know how long it's going to be
great for everybody. I see a couple of
people doing some dumb things. You know,
they're just doing dumb things to create
NI or or say they're, you know, winning
in the Marcus business, something like
that.
Diamond says he expects the credit cycle
will eventually sour again, though he is
not sure when. Million-dollar question.
And the Northeast continuing to dig out
of a powerful winter storm. The blizzard
knocking out power to 600,000 homes and
businesses, grounding more than 10,000
flights and disrupting inner city rail
service. Central Park recording nearly
20 ines of snow. Forecasters say more
snow may fall later this week. That's
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> nobody wants it. Yahara, thank you.
Thanks for the update. We'll carry on
tracking that story for you throughout
this morning. Up next on the program,
the AI scare trade making a comeback.
>> I thought there was going to be a small
reaction. Uh it was definitely larger
than than we expected. The AI trade has
been going on for 3 and 1/2 years. It's
been more or less a straight lineup.
Spooks people when when you do consider
what is negative about this.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Anna Arrana of Bloomberg
Intelligence live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
throughout today. Tons of Fed speed.
Brace yourself for that. Later on this
morning, consumer confidence. That's
interesting. Going into this at 9:00
p.m. Eastern time, the president
delivering the State of the Union. Some
confusion, some frustration, I think in
the White House hours as to why the
previous read is so low. Consumer
confidence rock bottom when they believe
this economy is so good.
>> Well, it comes down to affordability.
And the fact is we talk about inflation
with a CPI index and the CPI report.
Americans are thinking of price levels.
Price levels haven't come down. And you
see other areas where prices are going
up. Electricity, beef, affordability is
huge. That is the north star for this
administration ahead of the midterm
elections. And on top of that, you're
going to have this angst because
basically we're back into tariff
uncertainty. Remember everyone say we're
peak tariff uncertainty. Sure. We're
not. We're back to square one where we
have to even understand is it even this
morning 10 or 15% by the way it's 10.
>> And then once you get past the politics
and the policy, we can get back to
earnings tomorrow after the close.
Nvidia on deck into that equity futures
positive by 210 of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by a quarter. This from Steve
author Federated the first price target
cut I've seen so far this year on the
S&P 500 down from 7,800 to 7500 right a
range of reasons for this here's one the
asset light business model is changing
that paradigm is being challenged I
heard the same thing from Sevita
submanium bank of America going into the
weekend on multiples pe should compress
more even in software asset intensity
and leverage are worsening that's a big
focus for this year
>> evidently the 600 50 billion of capex
from four big hyperscalers resounded
across Wall Street and didn't do so that
well and it seems like that has changed
people's uh estimation for how much they
can grow into their capital structure.
>> Let's keep it on tech under Sylvanas
this morning. The AI scare trade making
a comeback.
>> I thought there was going to be a small
reaction. Uh it was definitely larger
than than we expected. Uh but I think
it's not that surprising when you take a
step back and consider kind of where the
markets are in the US. uh you know the
AI trade has been going on for three and
a half years. It's been more or less a
straight line up and so it on the one
hand you know spooks people when when
you do consider what is negative about
this.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Another wave of anxiety weighing on
software stocks following a report
predicting an AIdriven recession in just
two years. Satrini research writing in
every way I AI was exceeding
expectations and the market was AI. The
only problem the economy was not.
Joining us now, Anarak Runner of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Anorak, welcome
to the program, sir. It's good to see
you as always. I enjoyed the piece from
Catrini Research. What if our AI
bullishness continues to be right and
what if that's actually bearish? I was
surprised by the actual influence it had
on stock prices through yesterday. What
does that tell you about where we are?
>> Well, it basically tells me that there
is no nothing that can change the
narrative right now just because there
is so much fear in the market and people
don't know how to act. Especially
because the fear is not so much about
what's happening to earnings right now
or the next 12 months but it's the
terminal value of a company and if you
say a particular company is not going to
be in existence 5 years from now you
know it's very difficult to value or
price that particular security and
that's what we are facing at this point
>> well Alar let's talk about multiple
pressure then last year was an earnings
driven equity market an earnings driven
rally do we face the prospect of a
multiple driven selloff in 26 six.
>> Yeah, I mean this is the vicious cycle
because now what is going to happen is
because of the sell off in the first two
months, people are going to stop hiring
at that same rate they were last year,
which means further compression on sales
growth and earnings growth for all the
vendors, not just software vendors, but
anything that's providing any kind of
intellectual capital to these fortune
2000 companies. So that's going to keep
on going down and people will basically
you know reflect that and say that this
narrative is because of AI and not so
much because of the economic conditions.
>> Anorak Brown of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Anorak, thank you sir for jumping on
following that report on Sunday evening
which whipped this equity market around
big time.
>> If you take a look at some of the stocks
that were actually affected most
significantly yesterday, they were names
that were name checked in that report.
So if you people are saying, wait, it
wasn't really that work of fiction.
Well, Capital 1 was down almost 9%.
American Express down more than 7%, Door
Dash, all of the ones that they see as
being disintermediated. So clearly
there's something going on here. And
Anthropic just lobbed a grenade in there
with IBM, which also was uh plunging. So
definitely a clear and jittery feeling
yesterday. Marcus,
>> wasn't it odd that the responses to that
research, at least in my experience
online seem to be more vicious than the
responses to anything I've heard from
anyone else? Anthropic, all the south
interest that I've seen from say the
Microsoft AI boss in that interview to
the Financial Times over the last week.
Why was the push back so much vicious to
this piece which is a thought piece
about the future to some of the
forecasts coming out of the companies at
the epicenter of all of this?
>> Because it hit a nerve because it hit a
deep nerve that people have not wanted
to articulate and there is this
existential angst about what happens if
this doesn't go well and if success for
AI does not mean success for human
capital for human jobs and that is
something that that thought exercise
ignited and is very hard to argue
against.
>> Are you feeling it? Did it hit a nerve?
Well, you know, I actually read it. So,
you know, the truth is, well, we were
talking about it yesterday. It hit a
nerve, but it actually made me on some
levels more optimistic because it made
me less optimistic when nobody was
talking about this and everyone was
talking about all of the incredible
gains. Even Chris Waller was addressing
this that we're going to get a pace of
job destruction that will absolutely
destroy any kind of job creation in the
near term. Look, we have to deal with
that. Period.
>> The heads are no longer in the sand.
Correct.
>> I think that's good news. Cam Dawson
still with us around the table from 12.
Cam, I asked that question to Anarak.
I'd love your response to it. We had an
earnings driven rally through last year.
>> Do we face the prospect of a multiple
driven correction this year?
>> I think that is exactly what's playing
out because we're actually still seeing
earnings estimates go up for the S&P
500. A quick caveat, NASDAQ earnings
estimates on a top- down basis have
started to get cut. So, not on a
bottom-up basis. People aren't cutting
their estimates for individual
companies, but on a top-down basis,
people are growing less optimistic about
NASDAQ earnings. That's the first time
that has happened without an entire cut
to the broad earnings picture like
during liberation day in a really long
time. So if we think about it, we spent
the last 10 years effectively arguing
that US companies should trade at 30 40
50% premiums to their international
peers because they are more asset light.
They have more recurring revenue. They
have higher return on invested capital.
All of these questions that we're seeing
jostle markets around are effectively
challenging that notion about asset
light businesses about high ROC and this
is the market saying that we do not
think your earnings power today should
be infinitely capitalized into the
future at its current run rate.
>> So that sounds like a paradigm shift
regime change. Is it fair to call it
that?
Well, hey, look, the biggest challenge
is that regime change looks a lot like a
counter trend rally at the start. And
the last time that we saw a massive
regime change in markets was in the
early 2000s where you saw international
markets best US markets by a significant
significant degree. You saw growth
underperform value by under by over a
100%. So the big question is, is this
the start of something like that? We
think the key differentiator is that if
you go back to that 2000 to 2006 period,
it also was about earnings. Value
earnings outperformed growth earnings
during that time. And so for this to be
something that is a true regime change,
it has to eventually show up in the
earnings. Let's talk doomsday. I really
did enjoy this talk piece. It was a
really fun one. And the push back was
significant and it was really
interesting to see what some of the push
back was. biggest criticism was you
think that the the unemployment rate
could get to 10.1% and we don't get some
sort of bazooka response on the policy
side. It's something John you've talked
about before. We've discussed here. How
much is that the ultimate savior? Is the
Fed the ultimate circuit breaker? And
they could drop rates to 2% and they
could solve any kind of 10% unemployment
rates and they could raise taxes on some
of these hyperscalers and all of a
sudden voila, you have a better economy.
I do wonder how much the Fed has any a
ability to be able to save the bleeding
if this doomsday scenario works. Do Fed
rate cuts actually change this picture?
It would likely need to come with some
kind of fiscal policy response, but
typically we see the fiscal policy
response once you see the bad news
happening or some kind of cataclysmic
event starting to happen. So the
prospect of maybe getting to a 10%
employ un unemployment rate in a few
years is likely not enough to get
Congress to move to be able to justify a
fiscal policy response to prevent it.
>> What do you think the Fed's role is in
all of this right now? You mentioned
Governor Waller. I have to say
tremendous respect for Governor Waller.
Sanded almost confused in the speech
just yesterday. I was reading through it
about where we are at the moment and
what's their role. What is their role?
It's a really good question and we think
that the role has been dampened ever
since the pursuit of pushing down Q
using QE to push down long-term yields
and turnout debt. I think you can argue
that this cycle the economy has been
less sensitive to short-term interest
rates than it was in prior cycles
because of the pushing down of long-term
long-term interest rates. So, a really
big question of what do Fed rate cuts
actually do in this environment? What
does the Fed's balance sheet do to
prevent what could be major disruption
from a technology standpoint? I think it
remains a really open question. Now,
they'll do what they can. So, if you
were to see unemployment go up in a
significant way, they'll cut rates and
they'll likely cut rates to zero and
they'll argue that they should be well
below neutral and neutral is certainly
effectively close to where we are today.
So, we'd get rate cuts, but I don't know
how much it would help.
>> Cameron Dawson, good to see you. Cam,
thank you. Cameron Dawson there of New
Edge Wealth. Tons of Fed speak later on
today and I'm sure many of them are
going to give a nod to this big theme
that's emerging
>> and frankly they're going to give a nod
to it with as much confusion as Chris
Waller had. He talked about the thing
with AI is it's coming at us so fast
that it's easy to start seeing jobs that
may go away before you see the new jobs
that are going to be created. He went on
to say this could just be a different
period than I've ever seen in my history
which doesn't really lead us with much
clarity.
>> Crazy. This one's moving quickly. Coming
up on the program, Dorene Edelman of
Lenstein Sandler previewing the
president's address tonight. Plus, your
hyra has your morning movers. Home Depot
rising following an earnings beat. That
stock is up by 3%.
Whipsared in the previous two sessions.
Equity futures this morning positive by
0.2% on the Nasdaq, higher by a quarter
of 1% on Friday. The best day in two
weeks. Yesterday, the worst day in about
11 days. on Friday led by discretionary
yesterday led by Staples difficult to
keep up that risk aversion driving a bit
into bonds twos 10 30s looking like this
10's near the lows of the year at 4.03%
03% yields up by not even a basis point
this morning. We've not seen a close
with a three handle since November, but
we're getting close
>> and it seems to be flirting with that
direction as people look to the Fed with
some sort of policy response in the wake
of some of the employment carnage that
some people are mapping out in fiction
pieces on Twitter. There is this
question about what the response
mechanism would be given the fact that
Fed officials themselves seem confused.
>> All the Fed speak Goulsby Collins Bostic
Wall Cook Barkin all coming up
throughout today. The front end of the
curve anchored around 340 to 350 at the
moment. 345 as I speak. Yield tied by a
single basis point. The front end of the
curve. Stocks and bonds. Let's get you
some single name. Some morning movers.
Here's your with more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with Home Depot.
Shares are rising 3% in the pre-market
after a solid beat by the home
improvement chain chain as homeowners
continue to spend taking on small
projects despite all the issues we've
seen in the housing market. But
management says that the big remodel is
still on hold going for three year years
now. As for tariffs, the CFO telling us
nothing really concrete other than
they're analyzing the impact after the
Supreme Court of course struck down
President Trump's tariffs and he issued
new ones. They did say that price
increases will come in the first half,
though those were already planned.
Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of Hims
and Hers down 6 and a quarter% in the
pre-market despite the company uh giving
a forecast in line with expectations.
But that outlook relies heavily on the
company continuing to sell copycat
versions of Blockbuster weight loss
drugs, which of course a business that
is now facing lawsuits from Novo
Nordisk, plus the regulatory overhang
with the company saying just yesterday
that the SEC opened a new investigation.
All that hanging over a stock which has
lost half its value this year. And the
latest AI disruption scare only
reinforcing the rotation trade as
investors move away from software and
cyber security names as we saw yesterday
and move into names like SanDisk which
of course have the infrastructure that
power AI. SanDisk of course is uh makes
memory products. Those products are in
shortage. So shares are up more than
140% this year up another 3% this
morning. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhara later on this hour. On
our radar this morning, a fictional
report from Catrini Research sending
another sell off in motion yesterday.
The post warning of possible AI risk to
parts of the global economy and
potential bankruptcies in the software
sector. As the JP Morgan boss, the CEO,
Jamie Diamond, saying he's starting to
see parallels to the era before the 2008
financial crisis.
>> The rising tide lifting all boats.
Everyone was making a lot of money. I
don't know how long it's going to be
great for everybody. I see a couple of
people doing some dumb things. You know,
they're just doing dumb things to create
NI or or say they're, you know, winning
in the markets business, something like
that.
>> Diamond expressing doubt the AI concerns
would have a major impact on credit
losses and sees his bank as a winner in
the AI race. And finally, President
Trump's new 10% global tariffs are now
in effect as part of the effort to
preserve the administration's trade
agenda. The White House is working on a
formal order to increase the global
tariff rate to 15%.
>> This is the interesting thing. Uh
President Trump caused waves in markets
yesterday in part because of the 15%
proclamation on Truth Social. The fact
that it came out as 10% really
interesting. Also interesting to watch
what the response is from some of the
companies that are trying to get it back
in the wake of this decision. So
basically FedEx, another one that lined
up. You have to be able to go to the
lower court of international trade, sue
the government basically to even be in
line to get part of that $170 billion of
tariffs that were paid. That is going to
be the big question mark. Do the refunds
get paid and who gets them? And then
when it comes to actually the trade
deals like the European Union basically
saying pause because what happened with
AIPA, that is another whole basically
round of negotiations this
administration is dealing with. Jameson
Greer, Secretary Besson on the phone
with their counterparts saying please
these deals need to stay as they have
this bridge as they call it of 122 10%
now maybe 15% later depending on if they
sign actually signed that executive
order till they actually do real
investigations of 232s and 301's which
have the legal durability to withstand.
>> Well, let's just sit on the people
involved. Would any of this have
happened if Ambassador Lighheiser was
still running the show?
>> It's a good question. I would say
potentially the president maybe could
have been talked into doing the
investigations right at the start, but I
think they clearly thought that if we
make this too big to fail, the Supreme
Court has to be on our side, which is in
the end the gamble they went for. The
only reason why I caution on whether or
not it happened or not is because the
president will make a decision and
there's other voices in the room.
Remember Trump won? I don't know if it's
happening as much in Trump 2. Remember
Trump won? Everyone complained that a
decision would be made and then Peter
Navaro would go in and then get the
president to reverse course.
>> Let's head down to Washington and get
the latest. President Trump preparing to
deliver his State of the Union address
tonight in front of the Supreme Court
justices who struck down his signature
economic policy box office. Then on
Capitol Hill, Bloomberg's Mike Shepard
joins us now for more. Shep, what can we
expect? Well, you know, the president is
promising a long speech with a lot of
ground to cover, but as we've been just
discussing now, tariffs is going to be
one of the most closely watched issues
that he will bring up. We can expect the
president to defend his tariff agenda.
It's really the cornerstone of his
economic strategy and to see it kicked
away by the Supreme Court was a bitter
moment for him on Friday. we will see
him perhaps uh reenact a little bit of
that frustration before the Supreme
Court justices in attendance. Beyond
that though, we can expect him to talk
about uh trade partners and how they
need to abide by those agreements while
the more durable and lasting authorities
are pursued to impose uh subsequent
rounds of tariffs to replace the ones
that were uh that were just voided. We
could also expect him to perhaps address
in some fashion the affordability
question and voters uh when Trump is
talking about the economy are not
exactly buying it including on tariffs.
Uh the voter approval of his uh of his
uh tariff program is underwater. It's
below 50%. And voters instead are
looking at the economy through the
affordability lens. They are seeing
grocery, housing and utility prices much
higher and they are just not getting the
sense that they are benefiting from the
tariffs and from more broadly his
economic agenda and the way that the
president is presenting it. Now the
president when it comes to the
affordability issue he has at times
called it a hoax. Last week in Georgia
he said that they had won on
affordability pointing to a slowdown in
rises in c in inflation. But at the same
time, those issues of uh grocery prices
and utilities really do linger for
voters. And we may see him talk about
the utility and electricity price
question during the speech tonight. One
of the uh issues has been of course the
rise in electricity prices fueled by the
AI boom and the buildout of all those
data centers creating competition for
electricity. and he may talk about some
pledges from high big tech companies to
make sure that their data centers don't
boost utility prices for consumers. All
of this of course is taking back taking
place against the backdrop of the
midterm elections and the economy is
going to be front and center in the
affordability at the very heart of that.
>> Hey Mike, it's always good to see you.
Mike Shepard down in Washington helping
to lead some of our coverage later on
this evening ahead of that address from
the president. Joining us now to discuss
is the chair of the global trade and
national security team at Loenstein
Sandler, Dorene Edelman. Dorene, welcome
to the program. Can we just take a step
back and start on Friday and give us a
sense of the picture that you're
articulating to clients at the moment?
What the policy sequencing is going to
look like from here?
>> Great question. So on Friday, it was not
unexpected that the Supreme Court
invalidated the tariffs under Raipa
because under the law, it was very clear
at least six of the nine justices agreed
that tariff power is reserved to
Congress. The president overstepped his
authority. And I think we can even see
that with Trump's reaction. He he talked
a lot about his new tariffs in his su uh
truth social post and on his um press
conference or during his press
conference, but he did not say that he
was going to challenge the Supreme Court
decision. He's going to work around the
Supreme Court decision. So, we've got
that the tariffs are illegal. Therefore,
any tariffs will no longer be imposed
going forward and any tariffs that were
paid should be refunded. Period. That's
clear. The court even went on to say
that you don't have to have filed a
lawsuit in the court of international
trade or anywhere else to get the
refunds. The question comes in though is
how are the refunds going to be
administered? What is the process and
what is the timeline? And that is what
concerns every company I know.
>> Well, when you speak to companies, what
what are you telling them in terms of
how they should think about the
timeline?
>> Exactly. Uh we're telling them use the
procedures that are currently available
under the customs regime. There are
procedures for refunds. There's two sets
because remember, we're waiting. The
Supreme Court told the Court of
International Trade that it needs to put
a process in place so that Customs and
Border Protection CBP can issue these
refunds. So, while we're waiting, the
existing process is that companies can
go ahead and file one of two ways. if
their goods have not liquidated. And
what that means is when you bring goods
into the United States, you pay your
tariff, but that process is not
finalized between you and the government
until approximately 314 days later. And
that is called liquidation. So if if a
company has imported goods, but they
haven't liquidated yet, they can file
what is called a post summary
correction. And that means that we're
we're telling the government we made a
mistake. Those the the AIPA tariffs are
illegal. Therefore, we made a mistake in
what we paid you and we want a refund.
Pretty simple. Sounds pretty simple.
It's a typical administrative procedure.
That is one thing they can do. The other
thing they can do is if their goods have
already liquidated, the court has gone
far enough to say that we're not going
to have that be a u a problem for you to
get refunds. So, because if your goods
have liquidated, you can file another
document called a protest. And again,
you're going to say that the tariffs
were illegal and we want a refund and
here are the documents showing we
deserve it. Now, in theory, that is how
it's done. The problem is that obviously
millions of companies are doing it and
there are no time limits. On a PSC, it
could take
up to 314 days to get you that refund.
When you file a protest, the government
has two years to respond. So in this
case, you have an administration that
really doesn't want to roll back these
tariffs.
>> Darin, it doesn't sound simple. If I
could just jump in there, it sounds what
Justice Brett Kavanaaugh said on page
64, in his opinion, this is going to be
an absolute mess. While we deal with
that potential mess of refunds and the
administration is talking about this
bridge to investigations, can you tell
us whether or not you think using
section 122 is also even legal and if we
have another Supreme Court decision
ahead of us?
I think there will be challenges, but
again, that is going to take time. And
those 122 tariffs are only good for 150
days, July 26th, and then they need
congressional approval. So, they can be
challenged on the the legality, but that
is not going to change the fact that any
importer is going to have to pay them
starting today and through July 26.
>> Dorian, it's always good to hear from
you. Thanks for jumping on for us this
morning and breaking things down. Dorian
Edelman there of Loenstein Sandler on
the tariff effort down in Washington DC.
In an ideal world, this is what
businesses want from policy makers.
Reduce friction in the economy. One and
two, make sure you dampen down policy
volatility. We're achieving neither in
the last 12 months with this effort.
>> Yeah, the idea that peak tariff uh
uncertainty was behind us was really
key. And we might have seen peak
tariffs, but the uncertainty itself is
leaving a lot of businesses in the same
place that we started, which is what do
you want from us over the next year, two
years? We already changed our supply
chain once. Just give us give us
consistency.
>> I caught up with Muhammad Alerin over
the weekend and talked to him about this
and he basically said, "Sure, at the
macro level, things are unchanged. Yes,
the average tariff isn't going to change
too much. At the micro level, to your
point, individual companies just sort of
dazed and confused need to figure all of
this out now in the next few days and
weeks. It's going to be nice big fat
lawyer fees that are coming up for these
companies or maybe they can use an
anthropic plugin to figure out what
avenue it is. But listening to Dorine
speak about the advice she's giving to
companies. It depends whether or not
your tariff was liquidated or not. Was
the tariff even paid? The government
might have two years to pay it out. This
is going to be highly disruptive for the
next few months and for the rest really
of the Trump presidency.
>> Mess. Messy. A real mess. Futures this
morning positive by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P. Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
With more, here's Yahara. Hey, Yahihira.
>> Hi, John. Anthropic is offering some
current and former employees the
opportunity to sell shares at a
valuation of about $350 billion, sources
telling us here at Bloomberg. The sale
allows them to cash in at the level of a
recent $30 billion fundraising.
Anthropic's latest funding round valued
the company at $380 billion post money,
including the cash investors put in.
Paramount Sky Dance has raised its offer
to buy Warner Brothers Discovery,
sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
new unspecified bid improves on
Paramount's $30 a share proposal made
back in December and addresses some
concerns around financing. If the Warner
Brothers board decides a new offer is
superior to its current agreement with
Netflix, the streaming giants will have
four days to respond. Quite the bidding
war. And President Donald Trump invited
both the men's and women's gold medal
hockey teams to attend the State of the
Union. The women's team declined. While
many of the men's team are planning to
attend, you can watch Bloomberg's
coverage of the State of the Union
starting at 8:00 p.m. Eastern. We'll
have full coverage and analysis of the
president's speech, plus the Democrats
response. That's Bloomberg brief. John,
>> the men's team still celebrating, aren't
they?
>> Yeah, in Miami.
>> My goodness, those guys aren't going to
stop.
>> They went right to Miami. And then in
this phone call that was on Twitter, the
president was like, "Don't worry, we'll
get you a plane. How about you guys come
to the State of the Union?" And I think
the women's team might not be coming cuz
the president almost like halfheartedly
invited them.
>> It wasn't a full embrace.
>> It was a It was like because you're
coming, I have to invite the women.
>> Let's put it that way. Congratulations
to Team USA on the event over the
weekend. Up next on the program, testing
independence.
>> You recently said uh and it's all over
the media that uh you intended on
completing your mission. Uh
>> that's my baseline. Yeah. Independence
ultimately has to live in the culture
and conviction of the people who serve
these institutions
because sooner or later the legal limits
will be tested.
>> Up next we'll catch up with Jane Foley
of Rampa Bank live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
All is calm at the index level. And to
be fair, that's been the story so far
this year. Just hasn't been where the
headlines have been. The equity market
on the S&P 500 positive by a tenth of 1%
around 2% from alltime highs, believe it
or not, on the NASDAQ up another two10
of 1%. Turn to foreign exchange not
talked about much, but the dollar just
had its best week of the year so far
against the euro. Euro dollar negative
at the moment by not even a tenth of 1%.
11780 is just a bit of euro weakness
begins to creep in. Other surveters this
morning testing independence.
You recently said uh and it's all over
the media that uh you intended on
completing your mission. Uh
>> that's my baseline. Yeah. While we need
legal frameworks to ensure central bank
independence, frameworks alone are never
enough. Independence ultimately has to
live in the culture and conviction of
the people who serve these institutions
because sooner or later the legal limits
will be tested.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
ECB president Christine Lagard is
touting the importance of central bank
independence while downplaying reports
that she will leave her post early and
influence who names her successor. Jane
Foley of Rabbank saying an early Lagard
exit is the best case for the euro,
writing by denying the next French
president the ability to appoint the
next ECB head. Lagard could remove what
could otherwise be a period of downward
pressure. Jane joins us now for more.
Jane, welcome to the show. Just explain
your thinking just a little bit more. Is
this actually a legitimate concern
weighing on the euro at the moment? Um
perhaps not in regard of Lagard alone
because we got to remember that Lagard
isn't the only or her seat isn't the
only one that will become available next
year. We also have uh uh Lane, we also
have Schnoyel and I think the
combination of those three seats
becoming uh uh vacant. That's where the
pressure potentially lies. So uh with
with respect to to Lagard alone, we got
to remember that um all of those seats
uh will be appointed not by the French
president of course but by the by a
council which will be around about just
over half of uh EU members. So uh that
there isn't the ability of of the the
French president to to really um have as
much sway as he wants. Nevertheless, um
the fact that the guard is talking about
this really does underpin that there is
the issue of independence. who is going
to get those seats next year. To what
degree will the new French president
want to have his his say will be part of
those discussions. So, so really it's
all three of those seats. Where do they
go? If not joins in, that's a
possibility. There might be four vacant
seats. So, the issue of ECB independence
will be and and we've already heard is
already topical.
>> J, we've been told repeatedly and I
think we all believe in central bank
independence and we all agree that if
you diminish that, erode it that it's
bad for the currency. There is an
argument that if she looks to influence
who replaces her because she likes who's
in power now and what might not come
next, that would be eroding central bank
independence and should be bad for the
currency.
>> Well, that's exactly right and and
probably that's precisely why she's
saying, you know what, I will stay to
the end of my term because she doesn't
want to be seen as as playing those
political games. So So that is indeed
part of that. But we got to remember,
you know, we do have this issue now or
we've had for a while now, the issue of
potential loss of some of the Fed's
independence. Right now, again, we see
this noise this this morning in Japan.
You know, the market is fairly convinced
that uh the Bank of Japan is losing some
of its independence, although that
hasn't really been proven at all in
terms of what's happening in in Bank of
Japan policy and the market will be
nervous next year with respect to what
is going to happen with respect to the
ECB. It's unlikely, you know, in in in
in our view that um that France will get
to appoint the next president, but it
usually France and Germany tend to have
a permanent seat on that six member
board of the ECB and and it is likely
that there will be another French
position in that board. So perhaps
that's where the focus lies. because
we've already seen for instance last
week Spain announced that it might be uh
um uh uh interested in in putting
forward a candidate for the for the
presidency of the ECB but of course as
we've just discussed that has to be
backed uh by uh the a broad member of
the council in any case so lots of cars
up in the air but I think independence
is going to be an issue that we will be
focusing on in in the months ahead
>> what's the policy implication Jane is it
that there will be a global rate cutting
cycle that might not cohhere with what
the economics warrants. I mean, what is
the ramifications of a loss of
independence globally?
>> Well, if we go back to the comments that
we were made by um the the French
farright potential candidate for the
French presidency next year, we heard
him say that he wants the ECB to restart
quantitative easing and and buy French
debt. Now clearly there's credibility
issues in there. There's uh currency
issues in there. There's inflationary
issues in there potentially too. The
reason of course that he would probably
want uh uh the the the the French
central bank or the the ECB uh to do
that would be perhaps to uh take uh some
of the pressure off his fiscal policies
to to try and allow him uh to maybe
write a a few checks, run a looser
fiscal uh policy. We do have these
issues of course with respect to the the
budget in in France ongoing. Uh we have
a difficulty in in France uh um agreeing
or getting that the mainstream uh
politicians to agree to allow people to
work older for instance there's a lot of
pressure on the budget from that. But of
course if that were to happen and
nobody's arguing that it definitely
will. But if those sorts of policies
would happen that would certainly
undermine the value of the euro going
forward. And Jris just quickly then
11781 in 30 seconds. Where next for this
one for this currency pair?
>> You know, I think it's just choppy.
There's so much of an onslaught of of
news flow. We've had this so far this
year. I think we're going to continue
getting this this year. We've got
obviously Friday's news about the
Supreme Court, but equally we've got
news going on about Iran. We've got news
going on about uh um AI. So there's
also, you know, a safe haven bid
potentially supporting the dollar just
as people are worried about long-term
investment projections in the US because
of these um political uncertainties.
>> Hey Jane, got to catch up. Thanks for
the reaction there. Jane Farley there of
Rabber Bank. The story that just won't
go away. What does it mean to say it's
in your baseline? You know, don't you
just commit to completing your term? Why
do you have to keep on saying it's in my
baseline? What does that mean?
>> It means that she doesn't really want to
commit to anything and it means that we
have no clear sense. I mean, look, I
think that the bigger implication here
is that people have gotten short the
dollar because of a loss of Fed
independence, but this is a story
globally and that really is going to
potentially pressure uh other currencies
as well.
>> It's in my baseline to complete the show
today. Is it in yours?
>> Keeping your options open.
>> I'm not sure, John.
>> We'll see. All right. Coming up next,
Bob JP Morgan, Libby Canchel of Pimco,
Dan Stroven of Goldman Sachs, Craig
Siginthala of Bank of America from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
There are signs of stress in the equity
market.
>> The market's going to tread, you know,
down a little bit.
>> I wouldn't be surprised if we start to
see a little bit of move back into tech.
>> Eventually, investors will go back to
tech. There's just a tremendous amount
of dissonance right now.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
your scores look like this. A choppy few
days, a choppy few weeks. Equity futures
this morning positive by 210 of 1% on
the Nasdaq up by a third. In the bond
market, all is quiet this morning.
yields very very close to the lows of
the year 4.03% 03% on tens. Later on
this morning, some economic data,
consumer confidence. Look out for that.
Then this evening, an address to the
nation from the president of the United
States.
>> So my question is, how long is this
thing going to be? He already said,
look, this is going to be a really long
speech and he has uh given a speech once
that was 1 hour and 39 minutes or 99
minutes and 32 seconds according to the
record. How much is he going to lay out
a litany of potential issues in addition
to the affordability concerns that a lot
of people have been expecting? And it
comes at a time when you have still part
of the government when it comes to DHS
that is technically not being funded
right now. There is like that part of
the government that is still technically
shut down. And the president's approval
ratings really are at a low. Only 39% of
Americans approve the job he's doing
right now. And the issues he won on, he
is underwater when it comes to
affordability as well when it comes to
immigration. and tariffs will be front
and center given the fact that not only
did we get that Supreme Court decision,
the president yesterday was out, I would
say, a bit of a petty truth social post
saying he's not even going to discuss
the Supreme Court or write with them
with capital letters because that's how
annoyed he is. Well, those justices will
be front row.
>> It's going to be acrimonious.
>> I imagine he's going to highlight where
the equity market is as well. Very close
to alltime highs. But the disruption
beneath the surface is something we'd
love for the administration to address.
Let's talk about that disruption. And a
deal just announced this from Ian King
and the team here at Bloomberg News.
I'll read it verbatim for you. The Meta
will deploy 6 gaws worth of data center
gear based on processors from AMD.
They're calling it a blockbuster deal
that marks a win for the chipmaker
attempts to catch up with Nvidia. AMD in
the pre-market up by close to 11%.
>> Yeah, this to me is actually really
interesting because you would expect
that AMD, Broadcom, Micron in addition
to Nvidia would be the beneficiaries of
the uh dystopian future that we were
talking about just moments ago. And yet
yesterday a lot of those names sold off.
Today you're seeing a pop. How much are
the hyperscalers going to be on the hook
to pay for all of these costs? That's
going to be increasingly a focus. And
how much are they going to come out with
these deals to show, look, we are this
is going to be our money. So you don't
have to worry about the populist
upgrade.
>> Big move in AMD. But to your point, the
semi should be winning all of this. 600
billion north of capex intentions from
the big four. And yet the rally of
Nvidia has absolutely stalled. And that
arguably is the headline going into that
earnings report.
>> Yeah. What does Nvidia have to show to
disprove that narrative? I'm curious
about their capex plans. How much
capital expenditure do they plan to
engage with? Do they signal any slowdown
in demand? It doesn't seem like that
based on the hyperscaler plans. But
you're right. I think that ultimately if
you believe that AI is going to win and
human capital is going to lose. Well, AI
should at least get some benefit in
terms of the share prices. And why are
we not seeing that when it comes to some
of the hardware
>> until we start taxing them because
unemployment's in double digits and you
know we save 50% of the earnings of chip
makers.
>> Would it be chip makers UBI? No, because
they're strategically important. UBI is
going to come from Microsoft.
>> Well, already the president is saying
that they need to pay some of this
electricity build out because that is
causing higher costs for consumers. So,
I can expect potentially is going to
push them to pay for a lot more than
that.
>> You can get gloomy so quickly with this
story. Good news for AMD. The stock is
up by 12% in the pre-market. Equity
futures a bump higher, up by a quarter
on the S&P. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Bob Michael at JP Morgan
with bond yields near new lows for the
year. Liby Canel Pimco as President
Trump prepares to deliver the State of
the Union address and Greg Sigenthala of
Bank of America on an attractive buying
opportunity in blueout. We begin this
hour with stocks creeping higher
following another AI scare. The latest
bout of risk aversion helping to drive
bond yields down towards new lows for
the year. Bob Michael of JP Morgan asset
management writing the US economy
continues to operate at trend with
continuing disinflation tax refunds and
AI capex and nice tailwinds. All of this
is good for the bond market. Bob joins
us now for more. Bob, good morning.
>> Happy to be here.
>> Bond yields, new lows for the year, very
close to those levels right now. What's
driving yields that much lower?
>> I feel that the bond market is sitting
here with a growing stack of chips.
We're getting all the chips from private
capital and from equities where a lot of
investment by clients has gone. Uh, as I
talk to our clients, they still feel
underallocated to fixed income. Our
message is come on in. We're great. were
the perfectly priced market. If I think
about the Fed funds rate at 3 and 58, I
like it. Even if inflation runs at about
3% this year, you're talking about
positive real yields on Fed funds of 5/8
of a percent. You look at the two-year
Treasury, it's near the Fed funds rate.
That looks pretty good at 340 or so.
You've got about 60 basis points of
steepness out to the 10-year. That looks
reasonable to us. You're just over 4%.
You look at credit spreads for an
economy that continues to expand with
some tailwinds, they look fair to us.
>> There's been some doubt, as you know,
about how bonds would perform in an
equity correction. Are we beginning to
prove the data is wrong with recent
price action?
>> Um, I think so. And I think we've long
talked about the long end becoming
unanchored, seemed to have gotten
overdone, that the pain trade for this
year was going to be a bullish
flattening of the yield curve. We're
starting to see that now. investors are
recognizing they can go into bonds.
There is yield there. It is the
counterbalance to risk. When
>> you say go into bonds, you're talking
about treasuries. You're talking about
long end and you're talking about short
end. Does this kind of rally in the
government bond space mean something bad
for the riskier space?
>> Um I'm talking about the entire bond
market. I think most of the client uh
base that's coming into the bond market
isn't surgically thinking about
treasuries versus credit. They want to
buy an aggregate bond fund, a core plus
bond fund, an income fund, a bond
opportunities fund. In those benchmarks,
there are going to be a lot of
treasuries, but there's a lot of credit.
That money is coming in and it's buying
all sectors of the market. I'm not
worried about credit here as long as
recession isn't on the horizon. And
right now, recession seems a long way
off. Your CEO is talking about how there
are some problems brewing and there are
people acting in irresponsible ways in
order to get extra net in interest uh
income. There's this feeling that maybe
there is a canary in the coal mine that
is mounting in private credit. We did
see high yield bond spreads blow out a
little bit yesterday. Do you see any
issues percolating there?
>> Your producer promised me no hard
questions today.
>> You did? No one told me. So I didn't
ever
>> look I have a lot of sympathy for
Jaime's view. One of the things that
we've been looking at is CLLO equity
prices and how those have dropped. For
those of us who have been around for a
long time, it's reminiscent of what we
were watching in the ' 05 to07 period
going into '08. There were things called
assetback security CDX. So indices and
if you track the tripleB minus portion
of that which held in for a long time,
they also plunged. So, it's looking like
the first lost pieces of structured
credit, much like that 05 to07 period,
are starting to crack. Now, history
doesn't perfectly repeat, but it rhymes.
It's something to keep an eye on.
>> Do you see them as liquidity issues or
asset quality problems? Is it one or the
other right now?
>> Um, it's a combination of both, right?
Because as loans are created, depending
where where they're created in the
broadly syndicated loan space or in the
private credit space, there's a
different spectre of liquidity on them.
And where they go, do they just sit in
portfolios and roll over? Do they go to
create credit enhancement for CLOS's?
Those are also structuring problems. So
I think it's a combination of both.
>> I'm going to avoid naming the names so
you can actually talk about it. So if a
fund comes out and has to send a
portfolio of loans, has to sell them and
they get sold really close to par, does
that end the idea that these assets
aren't marked properly or does it just
make you ask questions about what the
other assets look like?
>> It it tells you that things are
functioning okay right now for the first
movers. I think that's good. I think as
long as the economy continues to move
along at trend or higher, I always say a
rolling loan gathers no loss, those
loans will be rolling and then the amend
and extend and the restructurings that
are going on behind the scenes. Um
they'll continue to go on behind the
scenes. That's fine. I think what
everyone's worried about is we haven't
had a shakeout in private credit yet and
a recession is that ultimate shakeout.
Do you prefer liquid credit right now to
private credit as a result of that
dynamic?
>> I think it all just comes down to the
borrower. I don't mean to evade that,
but ultimately um if you're a credit
picker, you've got to examine the
borrower and and no two borrowers are
identical.
>> So, you're very constructive, unlike
maybe other people that we heard
yesterday from JP Morgan. You did say in
your note that there is a new level of
geopolitical and economic uncertainty
given what the administration is doing
fighting back after AIPA was struck
down. Why is that though? If they're
just filling the hole with another 10%
tariff level.
>> Um because of all the confusion it
creates for corporate America. If you've
paid the tariffs, you're entitled to get
that money back if they were I tariffs.
So you've now got to go through the
process of reclaiming that. It's not
quite clear what new tariffs will look
like. Uh yesterday the thought was 15%.
That was just mooded. They're actually
10% with the threat of 15%. We don't
know what the sectoral tariffs are like.
When we talk to the businesses that we
extend credit to, they seem to be frozen
again. Just as they were starting to
understand what the cost of tariffs
would be and the impact of AI, what
happens in the last couple of days? Both
of those become news items again. And it
kind of freezes them from thinking about
capex in the coming year.
>> Freezes them potentially also from
hiring. Is that an issue right now you
think corporate America is dealing with?
>> Yeah, when you look at the stasis in
hiring, it's been that low hire uh low
fire environment for exactly those
reasons. You didn't know what your
profitability would be after tariffs.
Just as you were starting to get through
that, we're going to have new round of
tariffs. And of course, there was always
AI out there. You didn't want a higher
load of people if in 18 months you had
to replace them. And just as they were
starting to understand that, uh, there's
more noise there.
>> Bob, we've known each other a long time.
How many times have we had 10-minute
conversations about fixed income without
talking about the Federal Reserve? How
new is that?
>> Um, it's a welcome reprieve from talking
about that.
>> Is that the same with clients at the
moment? They're not asking about the Fed
in quite the same way. Has the story
shifted?
>> Uh, no. They're still concerned about
Fed independence. They're still
concerned about the nominated uh Fed
chair and and what that will look like.
They're still expecting multiple rate
cuts this year. Um so clients do still
talk about it a lot.
>> Emphasis on nominated. What do you mean
by that?
>> Well, he has to get through the
congressional approval process. Um we'll
see if it happens. I think it was a
pretty clean pick. You have someone who
was there 12 years ago who has a body of
work. uh looks like a very good
candidate to us.
>> You say if I would say when. We'll see
when it happens. But you say we'll see
if it happens. If you've got doubts that
it happens at all.
>> Yeah. Congress,
I'm probably in the 8020. It will
happen. But there's got to be some noise
along the way. When you look at what's
going on in Congress, what's going on in
the administration, the midterms coming
up and the new Fed chair uh would take
their seat in May, that's getting pretty
close to electioneering for the
midterms. I think it could become a
political event.
>> Interesting. Bob, it's good to see you
as always. Thanks for dropping by. Thank
you. Bob Michael there JP Morgan Asset
Management. didn't expect the headline
to be on the Federal Reserve at all, but
right at the end there, neither did
>> I. Especially when it was basically to
the date, February 16th, 2006, Kevin
Worsh got a voice vote of yay to go
through. And now you have someone that's
emphasizing his nomination and the noise
surrounding the fact that potentially
this hearing and void on the Senate
floor can be a little bit more chaotic
than many were expecting.
>> Rammo, the calendar is still empty.
Still waiting to see when or if that
even happens. The interesting thing is
people don't care if you actually are
looking at markets. And I think that
that's the more interesting aspect here.
What is the Fed going to do to alter
what is going to be potentially a
seismic change in the structure of the
economy? They don't have a clue. We
don't know who the composition is going
to be. But even if we did, do we have a
sense of what the response function is?
>> Bond yields near the lows of the year
against that backdrop. Tens at the
moment, 4.04%. Let's get you an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Yhara has more.
Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. In a blockbuster deal, Meta
will spend billions of dollars on AMD
data center gear over the next 5 years.
Meta will also receive warrants to buy
160 million AMD shares. Those shares
will vest and when the project and AMD
stock price reach certain milestone,
turning Meta into a major holder. Just
last week, Meta announced a tie-up with
AMD rival Nvidia.
The Ukraine war entering its fourth
year. Peace talks and fighting are
largely at a stalemate to allies, saying
President Trump is pushing for a deal
before the US hosts its 250th
anniversary celebration in July. There's
no indication Russian President Vladimir
Putin is ready to reach an agreement
that doesn't grant his central demands.
And the Northeast digging out from what
meteorologists are calling the biggest
storm in a decade. More than 2 feet of
snow falling in parts of the region. The
highest wind gusts topping 80 miles per
hour in Nantucket. Plane and train
service is still seeing massive delays
and cancellations. And the National
Weather Service tracking another storm
Thursday afternoon into Friday morning.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> you sound how so many people feel right
now about that. Yahara, thank you for
the update. Up next on the program,
ramping up Supreme Court attacks.
Supreme Court's ruling on tariffs is
deeply disappointing
and I'm ashamed of certain members of
the court. Absolutely ashamed for not
having the courage to do what's right
for our country.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Libby
Cantrol of Pimco live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Stocks are positive by two ten of 1% on
the S&P on the Nasdaq up by 0.4. The
NASDAQ getting a lift from this. Check
out AMD in the pre-market absolutely
flying off the back of a big commitment,
a big commitment from Meta to buy AI
chips and computers from the firm over a
5-year stretch and receiving warrants to
buy 160 million AMD shares.
>> What took so long? I think that that's
my question given the fact that if you
look at some of the capex plans, it's
going to be going to potentially Nvidia
and it's going to be potentially going
to AMD and uh on a lesser sense uh
Micron. So at a certain point you have
to wonder why are they not benefiting?
Why are they not still so far away from
their all-time highs?
>> AMD up in the pre-market by more than
12%. That is a big move. The next stop
of course for big tech is tomorrow after
the close when we get Nvidia earnings.
Later on though this evening, all
attention is on Washington DC. Under
Sylvanas this morning, ramping up
Supreme Court attacks.
>> Supreme Court's ruling on tariffs
is deeply disappointing
and I'm ashamed of certain members of
the court, absolutely ashamed for not
having the courage to do what's right
for our country. They're very
unpatriotic and disloyal to our
constitution.
It's my opinion that the court has been
swayed by foreign interests and a
political movement that is far smaller
than people would ever think.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
president preparing to deliver the State
of the Union address tonight. And some
of these Supreme Court justices who
struck down his AIPA tariffs are
expected to be in attendance. Blake's
Mike Shepard joins us now for more.
Shep, just how awkward is this going to
be later this evening? Well, it could be
a little awkward. And John, really, this
has been an interesting side drama in
the whole saga over tariffs and Trump's
bitter defeat at the high court last
week. It it was very clear on Friday his
frustration with the Supreme Court
overall with the decision, but
specifically with the justices who ruled
against it, who included two of the
three he appointed to the Supreme Court
during his first term. Now, the backdrop
to this is not just tariffs, John. It
really has to do with some of the other
key issues that the court is going to be
adjudicating that are also pillars of
the administration's policy. One is the
president's declared authority in his
view to be able to oversee independent
agencies and that includes the Federal
Reserve and the question of whether he
can at will fire members of the uh of
the court. That includes the Lisa Cook
case and then we also have the question
of birthright citizenship. Both of which
came up in a truth social post
yesterday. We'll be watching the speech
for more of that tonight.
>> Looking forward to it, Chef. Thank you,
buddy. As always, Mike Shepard down in
Washington with us here in New York,
Libby Canrell of PIMCO. Libby, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Set the stage for us later on this
evening. Just how bad is this going to
be for the Supreme Court?
>> Well, it could be tense. I mean, I think
if you compare this to his joint address
last year, which was triumphant. He had
a positive net approval rating. He had
two chambers of Congress. He was going
to pass this big tax bill. He had this
long runway, now politically a much
shorter runway, a net negative approval
rating, and then of course the sort of,
you know, awkward uh type of situation
where the Supreme Court folks are going
to be sitting in the front. I think
we're going to try to think we're here
really trying to lean in to the
victories that he's had over the last
year, trying to remind folks uh that he
did pass this one big beautiful bill
that of course people are going to start
seeing in their refunds. Um, I think
he's going to lean into immigration
policy. That's one except for over the
last six weeks or so, one where he's
actually been net positive in terms of
polling. And then we may hear him on
Iran as well. Um, but in general, we're
we should expect a long address. Last
last one was 90 minutes. This could be
even longer. uh and one where he's
really trying to make the case to the
American people about why they should be
approving of him probably in a little
bit more positive way, but also uh
importantly when they go to the uh the
election uh in in the midterms that they
should be um you know voting for a
Republican.
>> He has warned us that it's going to be a
very long one. But when it comes to the
Supreme Court and the tariffs, it didn't
have to be this way. Why in the end did
they decide to go for AIPA even though
they knew that this was going to have a
tremendous amount of issues potentially
at the Supreme Court? Well, I think that
I mean the Justice Kavanaaugh of course
who was in the descent, but he even said
that it was really not the issue for the
Supreme Court to to try to navigate how
ownorous the refunds would be. Uh that
they were, you know, their job of course
is to interpret the law. Uh and uh at
least for six of the of the nine
justices, that was pretty clear. And I
think that the thing for the markets in
some ways was it was very unequivocal.
This was a really clear opinion that
actually it is Congress that has the
power of taxation. Maybe the president
has the power of regulation as it
relates to foreign policy. But in terms
of taxation, that power still rests with
Congress. Now, I think actually even
though there's a lot of uncertainty here
uh in the short term around tariffs,
longer term, this is a good thing I
think for markets because this is just
reinforced that yes, the separation of
powers still exists. Uh that the I mean,
I'm I'm not actually trying to be
flippant. I mean that this is just you
know very clear in terms of actually who
holds the power of the purse and that is
still the Congress.
>> If USR and commerce investigations
aren't done by the end of the 150 days
of using 122 does Congress take that up?
>> I think Congress will try to avoid
taking that up. Um as Amory probably
knows July 24th which is the deadline
which is when these uh tariffs actually
set to expire is also the beginning of
the uh the the summer recess uh for
Congress. So, I think they would much
prefer uh to try to head out of town, go
and, you know, to their districts and
campaign for the midterms. I think that
it is very unlikely that they even try
to take this up. I think if they do,
this vote will likely fail. This does
not have 60 votes in the Senate, does
not have 218 in the House. This will
fail and this will be, you know, could
be an embarrassment for the president.
So, I think very unlikely that you see
Congress actually voting on this.
Forgive me for the stupid question, but
is it 10% or is it 15%.
>> I had to check this morning as well. Of
course, we we thought it was going to be
15%, but as of midnight last night, uh
what is actually being implemented is
10%. Now, I don't think anybody should
get too comfortable with that number.
Uh, of course, the president has the
ability to go up to 15% under the
statute of section 122. He of course
said he's going to do that on Saturday.
So, I think this is more of a question
of when, not if. Um but it is a little
confusing given given what uh President
Trump had indicated. I think the other
thing you know again from from a markets
perspective is even though we have this
intervening period of uncertainty we you
know going forward we're no longer going
to have trade policy by tweet. This is
because this you know AIPA really was
the statute that allowed the president
to do that. Uh these other tools section
232 and 301 and 2011 they have they you
know they're they're clunky. they you
there is a process there is an
investigation as it relates to it. So in
some ways even though again there's a
lot of trade policy uncertainty right
now I think in the longer term this
actually should mitigate uncertainty
once once we get to that that point
>> refunds could be messy. Is it a
non-event for the market? Most people
assume it is. What does the team at pimp
say?
>> Doesn't seem like it is right. I mean
you saw a little bit of steepening um
you know when these headlines came out
on Friday but I think that you know more
or less the market is expecting for the
president to be able to reassemble that
tariff. you know, the tariff rate uh and
what have you. And you know, 175
billion, it's not for nothing obviously
on a $2 trillion or so deficit uh
figure, but I think in the grand scheme
of things, it's also not that
significant. And of course, the
administration has has indicated that
they're probably going to slowwalk these
refunds. This is not going to be even if
the courts say that this should be more
automatic, the process is going to be
more clunky.
>> What did the president say? It could be
in court for 5 years.
>> Yeah. Oh, he's saying it could be in
court forever. Brett Kavanaaugh says
it's going to be a mess. in in his
descent.
>> Sounded messy already.
>> It is messy. I mean, when you hear
Dorene talk about what she's describing
to clients, it sounds like an absolute
disaster.
>> Libby, good to see you as always. Thank
you. Thank you very much, Libby. Can
there of PIMCO? The takeaway also from
one of the conservative justices,
>> Gorsuch making the point that if we end
up essentially with a socialist
president, you'll be happy.
>> Yep.
>> That this exists.
>> Now, my words, not his, but ultimately
that's what he's alluding to.
>> Major questions doctrine. How much power
does executive branch really do does
have? Coming up on the program, Dan
Stroven of Goldman Sachs raising his
crude forecast. That conversation just
around the corner.
Last week, the best weekly gain on the
S&P since early January. Friday, a
decent day of gains. Monday, we took it
all back. Equity futures this morning,
positive by a tenth of 1%. On the
Nasdaq, up by a third. Some big movers
out there, including AMD. So, let's get
straight to it with your morning movers.
Here's Danny Burger. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. It's news that broke not that
long ago. It is a huge deal between AMD
and Meta. Meta is going to be building a
6 gawatt data center and they're going
to be doing that using all AMD
processors. Lisa Sue, the CEO of AMD,
saying that it is a deal worth
multibillions worth of dollars. And then
along with that, uh, Meta is also
getting warrants to buy shares of AMD.
So, a lot to like if you're an AMD
shareholder. shares up 11% in the
pre-market. Meta dip slightly about 3/4
of 1%. We also in the 6 a.m. hour had
earnings out uh from Home Depot and
SanDisk shares also moving higher this
morning. Those are up about 3 and a.5%.
Uh finally, we wrap it up this morning
with Planet Fitness. Those also had
earnings out. Uh profit was better than
expected uh rather profit missed
estimates, but they did have better than
expected uh otherwise sales. So, it's
the profit that's an issue. They're
spending more on capital expenditures.
They're opening up more branches. So,
that aid into some of those results.
Shares down uh 5% in the pre-market.
John,
>> hey Danny, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Danny in the next
hour. On our way down this morning,
another blockbuster AI deal. Danny was
just talking about it. Meta agreeing to
spend billions of dollars on AMD data
center gear, including chips and
computers, over the next 5 years. Meta
will also receive warrants to buy 160
million AMD shares. Elsewhere, IBM
suffering its biggest one-day decline in
more than 25 years. Shares sinking after
Anthropic's latest tool can help
modernize a data programming language
that runs on IBM computers. IBM was down
hard at Monday's close by 13%. And
finally, FedEx is suing the US
government. The company is demanding a
full refund for the tariffs it paid,
which was seem deemed illegal by the
Supreme Court just last week. FedEx
saying it quote suffered injury by being
forced to pay a substantial amount of
duties on imported goods.
>> So this is the first of the big
companies and it's not going to be the
last. We already have seen similar types
of filings from companies including
Costco, Revlon, Bumblebee, uh Kawasaki
Motors. A real question here about what
their remedy is going to be. Let's say
they get some money back. Does it go to
corporate profits or does it go back to
lowering prices for consumers? And how
will that play politically? So still a
lot of questions. Nonetheless, the
lineup is beginning. The fight is
beginning and let's see how it shakes
out.
>> I think we know how some of it might
play politically. I'm pretty sure if
corporations don't lower their prices,
this administration is going to come
out, use the bully pulpit. I think the
Treasury Secretary called it corporate
welfare. So, this is going to get messy,
not just in the refund process as all
this now moves to the court of
international trade in New York to
figure out the timeline for all this,
but also the polit politics of it and
the rhetoric surrounding it. They don't
want to be in the political firing line,
but ultimately they have a duty to
shareholders to pursue the refund
>> and to do this publicly as well. You've
got to do it.
>> Ultimately, the question is just whether
someone might find it feasible to sell
the claims to somebody else at a
discount, get the cash, have some
certainty in their business plan, and
then move forward. Or do they want to
make a stand and say, "Look, we are
going after this." Without a clear sense
of exactly where that money is going,
and without a clear sense of what the
future uh tariff rate is going to be.
Look, this is going to be so messy. and
how they position themselves and what
the messaging is from the corporations
will be interesting as well.
>> That's the latest from FedEx and those
refunds which could be very messy. Let's
turn to crude oil holding near a
seven-month high as investors weigh
potential US Iran nuclear deal with talk
set to resume on Thursday. Droven of
Goldman Sachs writing, "Although we
assume no Iran related disruption to
supply and maintain our 26 surplus, we
raise our Brent WTI forecast for the
fourth quarter of this year by $6." Dan
joins us now for more. Dan, welcome to
the program. We've seen issues with Iran
before and we've got over them very
quickly. Why is this different?
Yeah, so far um and it's it's not all
that different from what we have seen
over the the last last few years where
where actual Iran uh crude production uh
remains uh unaffected where production
in the broader region in the Middle East
remains unaffected but where the market
and I think appropriately so is putting
some weight on on disruption scenarios
and is pricing in a jubilical risk
premium that we now estimate at around
$6 per barrel. Um the two reasons we
look for a decline uh in brands from
around 71 now to 60 by the end of this
year in our view the bottom of the cycle
is one uh the assumption that easing in
geopolitical tensions uh gradually uh
reduce this risk and second uh because
we still look for a global surplus. We
expect the fair value uh for oil prices
to moderate by about $5 um to to $60 by
the end of this year. uh if we see
builds uh in in OCD uh oil stocks which
to be clear we haven't really seen over
the last year. We have been in a large
surplus but so far the builds have been
happening outside of the OCD pricing
centers.
>> Dan, can we just sit on that just how
well supplied the oil market is right
now?
>> Yes. So we estimate that in 2025 the oil
market was in a surplus that was sizable
in the tune of 1.7 million barrels per
day. that is just under 2% of the global
market for this year. We're looking for
a slightly larger surplus, 2.3 million
barrels per day. Why? The first reason
is we think that we started 2026 uh with
excess supply because in 2025 we had
supply outpacing demand. And second, in
2026, we look for strong supply growth
uh in the tune of 1.8 million barrels
per year-over-year growth to outpace
pretty robust demand growth of around
1.2 2 million barrels per day under the
critical assumption that we don't see
supply disruptions. While the global
surplus is the starting point for our
forecast, I think the bullish surprise
over the last few months has been the
composition uh of where those inventory
builds have happened. They have happened
to a large extent on water where a lot
of sanctioned barrels are stuck uh from
Iran and Russia. They're not competing
with commercial barrels in pricing
centers and also in SPR facilities in
emerging markets. Dan, today we have
Marco Rubio, the Secretary of State,
briefing House and Senate leaders at the
White House at 3 PM. There's a lot of
obvious uh people thinking that this is
about how Iran is looming large right
now, especially ahead of the State of
the Union. So, what if we did see an
actual strike and Iran responded with
the closure of the Strait of Hermoose?
Can you give us that scenario in terms
of what it means for oil prices?
>> Yes. So I think the the critical
question for for OP prices ultimately
fundamentally is do we see disruptions
to uh to production and to to exports in
the region. Um 1 million barrels per day
sustained supply disruption boost the
fair value of oil prices by about $8. Uh
if we were to see a large and full
closure of the straight of Hormuz uh you
know prices could be significantly
higher. We estimate that prices may rise
uh you know to to $100 per barrel if you
saw uh you know a short full closure and
then followed by by a partial more more
sustained closure. But because the
economic cost from the rise in energy
prices both crude and global gas prices
would be so large um rational economic
reasoning suggests that this is not in
the interest of the US uh China the Gulf
the Gulf states nor Iran and so that's
why we characterize this as a as an
unlikely unlikely tail scenario but risk
managers traders they have to think
about the probability uh of that
scenario even if it's an unlikely tail
scenario and have to continuously
reassess the probability ility of that
tail as a function of geical headlines,
>> right? There's also irrational actors in
this. We have been in a scenario in the
past where proxies of Iran have hit,
say, Saudi Arabian energy facilities.
What kind of impact on prices would that
mean?
>> Yes. I I would refer to our to our
modeled estimate that a sustained one
year 1 million barrels per day um supply
disruptions boosts the the fair value of
of of oil prices by about $8 because of
lower lower inventories. Now in practice
uh I think prices will probably rise
more in the short term as the market
puts a greater weight on further further
escalation scenarios. Um, of course the
key question is how quickly can uh can
production come back and when we go back
to what happened in 2019 uh in in
Abiquake um you know production came
back remarkably remarkably quickly
prices jumped uh and a few day few days
later they had normalized.
>> D is not notable to me that the oil
majors are not tracking oil prices the
way that you might expect or the way
that they have in the past. In fact,
you've seen oil majors the shares trade
at near record highs or at record highs.
Jason Thomas of Carile just put out a
note talking about how uh technology new
economy shares are down 5 to 10% and old
economy shares including energy are up
30 to 50% since October of last year.
How far can these shares keep rallying
independent of oil prices that have kind
of remained in this range?
>> Yes. So I I think there are there are
two reasons why um you know energy
equities have done well and to be clear
I covered the commodity but I can
summarize the research from my equity
research colleagues. Uh one um equity
markets uh are more forward-looking than
commodity markets and and while we are
somewhat below the forwards for crude
oil prices in 26, we are below above the
forwards from uh 2028 or long-term brand
forecast is is 75 because we see this
2025 supply wave as a as a one-off and
we think oil demand growth to 2040. I
think equities are increasingly pricing
this more robust long-term oil demand
outlook and this slowing in in supply.
Second, I think the starting point for
valuations uh of many of the old economy
uh equities including energy equities
was was quite low. Um and I think this
rotation from from soft soft assets uh
including software stocks sort of the
new economy stocks uh to um sort of the
hard assets including energy uh real
estate uh commodities is a second driver
of this of this outperformance of of of
energy equities and and third these
companies have been uh wellrun uh costs
have been have been coming down uh
technological progress uh is is good and
so for a given oil price they can
generate higher
higher margins than in the past when
when costs were were higher.
>> Please forgive me. Uh Satrini has made
me a bit existential. I'm going to blame
them for this next question. But let's
just say uh that you do have AI gains
that are as great as people expect. You
do get this investment in the old
economy. How far can that go if it comes
at the expense of human capital, right?
How far can it go if it comes at the
expense of global economic growth at
least tied to the consumer?
Yeah, obviously highly uncertain how how
AI will exactly develop uh you know GDP
uh labor income, capital income, but
where economists have have argued that
in the past uh productivity shocks
product uh positive productivity shocks
have been a positive for for GDP and
ultimately employment even if in the
short term you you see some some job
losses because ultimately productivity
gains mean more income, more spending
and potentially new occupations, new new
spending needs. So that that's also our
base case for how AI plays out. Um our
view that AI will boost productivity and
and GDP in the US and globally is one of
the reasons why we have above consensus
long-term GDP forecast and why we expect
oil demand to grow uh through through
2040. So that's that's the base case,
but we'll have to watch the data. this
time maybe may be different. Uh and our
economists are laser focused on tracking
the impact of AI disruption on labor
markets and so far the hit to monthly
employment uh in sort of the AI uh
exposed sector seems pretty modest at
around 5 to 10k uh per per month in in
the US economy for now.
>> Dan, good to see you. Thanks for jumping
on following that forecast revision. Dan
Stroven there of Goldman Sachs on crude.
Some tremendous research coming out of
Goldman at the moment. You're going to
hear this phrase a lot, halo, heavy
assets, low obsolescence. Here's the
quote for you. Markets are rewarding
capacity, networks, infrastructure, and
engineering complexity assets that are
costly to replicate and less exposed to
technological obsolescence.
>> Utilities at a record high. I mean, this
basically gives you the exact sense that
we're talking about. Staples,
healthcare, and utilities all are the
big winners in this halo effect. At the
same time, you see software down 30%
since the end of October. So it gives
you a sense of just how much dispersion
there is under this very calm hood.
>> Some real regime change in this equity
market at the moment. We'll see if it
sticks. Equities at the moment taking a
turn lower, just slightly negative by
not even a tenth of 1% with an update on
news elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhara has more. Hi
Yhara.
>> Hi John. Jane Street was sued for
alleged insider trading by the
administrator winding down the affairs
of Terraform Labs. The complaint claims
Jane Street used non-public information
to frontr run trading that led to the
collapse of terraform and allowed the
firm to unwind hundreds of millions of
dollars in potential exposure. A Jane
Street spokesperson called the suit
desperate.
Apple is bringing some manufacturing
stateates side. The iPhone maker
announcing it will start building Mac
mini desktop computers in Houston,
Texas. Apple said assembly will take
place in the same site where it began
producing servers used in data centers
to power AI features. Apple currently
builds MacBook Pros at a facility in
Austin. And Floyd Mayweather Jr. and
Manny Pacquiao are stepping back into
the ring. The boxing legends are set to
meet on September 19th at the Sphere in
Las Vegas. Netflix will stream the event
worldwide. This will mark the first time
Mayweather and Pacquiao have faced each
other since their historic fight of the
century back in 2015, which Mayweather
won via unanimous decision. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> I hate it, but I watch it and maybe that
means I'm part of the problem.
>> Wait, you hate it and you watch it? You
can watch this.
>> I hate the idea of what boxing has
become.
>> Yeah.
>> But at the same time, because it's Manny
and Floyd,
>> I'll watch it.
>> I'm looking up tickets.
>> That means I'm part of the problem,
right? which is why they keep doing
ridiculous things like this
>> or the solution. It depends on your
perspective.
>> No, I just boxing is getting too close
to to wrestling
>> and to MMA.
>> No, to wrestling.
>> Too performative.
>> Too performative. Too theatrical. Too
staged.
>> It's an exhibition. I find that
problematic.
>> Yeah. You want the raw old school
boxing.
>> We fight the best. And
>> that changed a long time ago.
>> Everyone just get along. I just don't
like the punching.
>> Oh, right. You don't like the sport.
>> Yeah. I just don't like the idea that
people get knocked out. That's my That's
my That's my opinion.
>> Then definitely don't tune into this
one. I won't.
>> I imagine you won't be watching. Up next
on the program, private credit jitters.
>> I'm not overly concerned with some of
the areas in terms of redemptions.
Right. One fund doesn't really represent
the aggregate market structure in terms
of the vehicle that's of investment in a
$2 trillion market.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Craig
Sigantala of Bank of America live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV. Equities
just about negative on the S&P. We're
down by a tenth. just about positive on
the NASDAQ supported by a big rally of
AMD in the pre-market. The NASDAQ 100 is
positive by a tenth of 1%. Just remember
AMD makes up about 2% as a waiting of
the NASDAQ 100. So, some support there
coming from that single name so far this
morning. Elsewhere, a big focus on
what's happening in private credit.
Ernest this morning, private credit
jitters.
>> I'm not overly concerned with some of
the areas in terms of redemptions,
right? The market structure matters a
lot, right? And so in the loan market,
if you're talking about private credit,
the vast majority are in closedend
private funds where there are lockups.
And so you won't have that redemption
risk. One fund doesn't really represent
the aggregate market structure in terms
of the vehicle that's of investment in a
$2 trillion market.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Blue
shares extending losses as investor
anxiety rattles the private credit
industry. Craig Sigantala of Bank of
America with this to say. There is a
significant level of misinformation
weighing on owl and the private credit
industry which has led to a particularly
attractive buying opportunity. Craig
joined us now for more. Craig, welcome
to the program. That word
misinformation, I'll give you some time
just to get into that. Where do you
think the missing information is coming
from? What's it about?
>> So Jonathan, thanks for having me on the
show. I mean I actually have a long list
uh that I kind of published in my report
yesterday but number one is
transparency. Um all almost all almost
all private credit funds are forced to
disclose their holdings quarterly. You
can see if the loans on nonacrrual you
can see the spread. You can get color
into the watch list. You can see data
like paying kind. So, when I hear people
say that private credit isn't
transparent, um it's really not true. Um
that's kind of the starting point. I I
also want to remind you a few moments in
time. There was a lot of news around
Pluralsight two years ago, which was a
default that Blue and others had and
then also we had Tricolor and First
Brands. Since that moment, the
underlying portfolios have performed
very well and also the average blueout
private credit fund returned between
positive8 and positive 10% last year. So
these aren't exactly bad returns.
They're actually very good returns and
and that's part of where the
misinformation starts. But I actually
published a list um on page three of the
note um that that I published yesterday
and it it's kind of too much to put in a
response right now on TV.
>> Of course, I understand and they should
reach out to you directly if they want
the full list and I I've got the
document as well to read through. The
question I think you'll be asked though,
so here's an example question. If there
isn't a problem with asset quality, when
they sell a portfolio of loans, why do
they need to sell to their own insurance
company? What's the response to that?
So um they sold 1.4 billion of assets
and this was across really three funds
but really two funds. One of the funds
is a very small fund. It's called OBDC2.
This fund is in a runoff. They're
allowing investors to redeem 5% a
quarter. Instead of giving them five,
they gave them 35%. So you know when
when people said, "Hey, they're halting
redemptions." It wasn't really true
because they were expecting to get five
and they got 35% instead and those
assets were sold at par. Now they sold
those assets to four investors. I do
think one of those investors uh was the
insurance uh business uh blew out which
they don't own but they do manage but
the three other investors were third
parties. The three other investors set
the price. So I agree. I don't like
self-dealing when a private equity firm
send that sells 100% of assets to
themselves and that happens sometimes.
In this case it was probably like 25% of
the assets went to an insurance company
that's managed by blue but 75% or so of
those assets were bought by completely
third party institutionals that set the
price. That's why I don't think that is
a big deal in my view. Do you think
though Craig this highlights the concern
about expanding private credit so
significantly to retail investors or to
semi-liquid funds at a time where there
is a fundamental mismatch immaturities?
Okay. So um private credit is done about
12% a year for three years. It's a very
young asset class and it's been growing.
So most retail investors and most
financial adviserss are actually very
happy with the with the performance and
I actually think private credit will
continue to grow over the next decade in
all three channels institutional where
there's very strong demand insurance
where there's very strong demand and
retail but retail will be a little more
proyclical but what's very kind of
interesting to me is why are retail
redemptions picking up when performance
has been very strong and that's partly
where get to this sort of the
misinformation, the fear that's coming
from a lot of places which isn't uh
based on fact. Now I will push back a
little bit. A lot of the private credit
funds like the public BDC's there's no
asset liability mismatch. That is purely
permanent capital. Now inside of the
private BDC's um they are allowed to
have a limited redemption. Now in the
future if we have a recession and
defaults are up um some of these private
credit portfolios are going to have
losses. Now their losses will be way
smaller than the uh QQQ or the S&P 500
index. So relatively private credit will
outperform but when there's losses that
will spike higher redemptions and then
what the fund is allowed to do is limit
redemptions down to 5%. That's how the
product was designed. It was designed so
that there would be no asset liability
mismatch. So I do push back on that
point.
>> Craig, we just have about a minute here.
I'm just wondering, you seem frustrated.
It seems hard to dispel some of these
fears that continue to mount,
particularly in the software loan
sector. I just wonder at what point do
you worry it becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy where companies have to pay
more for loans and then they actually do
become more fundamentally stressed.
>> Yeah. So I've actually seen these
moments before which gives me confidence
now. You go back in time, Blackstone, B
rate 4Q22.
You had Apollo in the middle of 2020
dealing with its own issue. You had
Aries in 4Q18. If you bought those three
stocks at that moment, which I think is
a similar moment for blueout, you would
have got between 80 and uh 180% return
in your shares over the next 12 months.
So, I've kind of seen these moments
before. Um, which which is kind of why
I'm not worried. But listen, I I think a
lot of people don't understand private
credit and that's why there'll continue
to be misinformation. If there's a
non-approval that pops up next quarter
blew out, I assume there'll be a lot of
negative articles on it even if it
doesn't matter that much.
>> Craig, thoughtful stuff, a constructive
view, some push back there. Craig
Sikinthala there of Bank of America.
That stock cut in half over the last 12
months.
>> What's it going to take to disprove this
to dispel this? We have Salesforce
earnings coming up tomorrow. We have
Cororeweave on Thursday. Let's say
they're blowout earnings. Is that going
to be enough? Well, that's not what
we've seen in the past. So, you can feel
the frustration. It's not terrible out
there and yet no one seems to be
listening.
>> It's difficult out there. Let's put it
that way. And confusing. NASDAQ futures
bouncing back by just 0.2%. Up next,
Manamahan of Edward Jones, Beth Kind of
the IO Fund, David Se of Namora, and
Matt Durki of Northwestern. The third
hour of Blindberg surveillance up next.
We are in Liberation 8 2.0.
>> Marcus would have been relieved to get
past the tariff issue and it seems like
it's going to be front and center again.
>> Right now it's a bit of wait and watch.
A high tariff scenario is where we're
going to be.
>> I don't think it changes the overall
narrative for the marketplace. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> This is going to be a long week. Live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning. For our audience
worldwide, the third hour of Bloomberg's
surveillain starts right now. Your
scores look like this. Just about
unchanged on the S&P 500 on the NASDAQ
just about positive, up by a third of
1%. For the week ahead, that long week,
it looks like this and starts later on
this morning. Consumer confidence want
to watch at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time
going into this this evening. The state
of the union. The president believes the
state of the union is a okay. Consumers
right now have a different view of
things.
>> And frankly, for all of the efforts to
try to change people's minds, it has not
been working based on polls. What is the
uh issue going to be that he's going to
raise about how they're going to fix
this? How they're going to cater to
affordability? And how is he going to
pair that kind of awkwardly with raising
tariff rates in the wake of AIPA? I
mean, this is going to be a really
interesting conversation that he has at
the podium for potentially much more
than an hour, especially given this
latest Washington Post Ipsos poll. 64%
of Americans don't like tariffs. So,
when the president's going to double
down on it tonight, that might not bode
well for his broader message on
affordability. Also, what is going to be
a problem? Higher electricity prices,
higher beef prices, when he's trying to
say that he inherited a mess and he's
trying to turn it around because all of
this is about the in uh midterm
elections. On top of that, only 39% of
Americans right now approve of what the
president is doing. And you have these
issues that he was winning on at first
when he came into office that now he's
underwater on. Affordability, one of
them, but also as well, immigration.
>> He's making a big push also for lower
interest rates. The Chicago Fed
president weighing in just moments ago.
Austin Goulsby not obvious that Fed
policy is restrictive. More rate cuts
require progress on inflation. The
latest from him. What's interesting,
Austin Goulsby of the Chicago Fed has
been talking in this kind of tone and
we'll be hearing more from him with our
own Michael McKe later this morning. But
what was interesting is that Chris
Waller, who has otherwise been fairly
dovish, yesterday came out with a bit
more of a hawkish tone, saying he really
is on the fence. He could go either way
with respect to a rate cut depending on
the economic data. Is it going to be
inflation and this is really putting PPI
on Friday in focus or is it going to be
potentially unemployment picture given
the fact that there is this existential
fear about AI and what that's going to
do to the labor market. Ultimately it
seems like these things are in conflict
but right now inflation very much taking
the lead in a number of these
conversations. We also had Steven what
was it last week talking about the fact
that if there's a better labor market
maybe he would readjust how many rate
cuts he sees for this year. So the bar
has just gotten so much higher when you
have these latest comments from Governor
Walsh, Governor Myron. How much harder
is that going to be for the new Dove,
Kevin Walsh?
>> Super doubbish, still dovish, but just
turning a little bit more neutral over
the last week or so based on the
conversations and the communication
we've seen so far. Check out this move
in the pre-market. AMD up by more than
9% supported by a move from Meta to buy
all the chips that they produce, the
computing equipment, and some stock as
well. Okay, this is captain and obvious.
We knew that this money was going to go
somewhere, right? I mean, essentially,
if they're going to be spending a
combined $650 billion with their other
three uh big tech leaders in the capex
game, where are they going to be
spending it? Nvidia, they're going to be
spending on AMD. They're going to be
spending on these other companies. Why
haven't those shares been rallying more?
And that's been a big question. And
well, bam, here it is.
>> Big question for Nvidia into the print
tomorrow after the closing bound. Why is
the rally of that name stalled over the
past what, four months?
>> And is it going to be because of some
questions around China? Is it going to
be around just how quickly they can get
those chips? The question around memory
or is this going to be just simply an
oversight by people who have gotten
carried away by their fears and
suspicions?
>> The headline corporate act a little bit
later. Talking for yourself, right?
>> Of course.
>> Carried away by fears and suspicions.
Nvidia tomorrow evening. Look out for
that after the close. Coming up through
this hour, Mona Mahan of Edward Jones
with stock and recovery. Beth Kind of IO
fund previewing Nvidia's earnings. and
David Se of Namura as Fed Governor
Christopher Waller calls a March rate
kip cut a coin flip. We begin this hour
with stocks rebounding as investors seek
trade clarity from President Trump's
State of the Union address. Manahan of
Edward Jones writing the overhang of
tariff policy remains and markets are
reflecting this with some defensive
posturing. We recommend staying
diversified and staying invested. Ma
joins us now for more. Ma, welcome to
the program. How would you frame what's
been happening in this market over the
past few months? There were some people
who came on the program and said this is
a cyclical rotation. Don't worry about
things. Now it feels like a bubble is
bursting.
>> Yeah. You know, John, it's it's
interesting. It's a tale of two markets
almost on an index level. You could take
a look at the S&P and say, well, we're
flattish year to date. We've been pretty
much in line with uh all-time highs, 1
to 2% below the most recent all-time
highs. But underneath the surface, we
know that there has been an aggressive
rotation. And that rotation uh has
really hit parts of the market that are
not only being cannibalized by AI. Think
about the software names, but that are
potentially being disrupted by AI. And
we've certainly seen that in sectors
like parts of financial services, uh
parts of real estate, and parts of even
transport and logistics. Now, keep in
mind, none of those business models or
revenues have actually shifted. This is
still all speculative. uh but
nonetheless parts of the market that are
holding up better cyclical but more
namely capital intensive and what we'd
call old economy sectors are certainly
holding up better and we think that
trade likely has some legs here
>> so this is important because the
traditional way to think about an equity
market whenever we get a move like this
risk on risk off is it defense versus
offense what's going to do well value
versus growth this from Goldman I think
sums up things pretty well when they say
markets are rewarding capacity networks
infrastructure and engineering ing
complexity, assets that are costly to
replicate and less exposed to
technological obsolescence. That
summarizes the last few months. Do you
think looking out that's going to be the
story?
>> You know, I think until we get some more
clarity on how AI plays out, uh there
will be some defensive posturing in the
market and that includes kind of
gravitating or flight to safety in what
we call those more capital intensive
parts of the market. Now, we've also
seen a bit of flight to safety in
precious metals and even that return to
treasury bonds as a safe haven asset
class. Uh but nonetheless, we do think
uh perhaps the silver lining here is as
we look underneath the surface at the
fundamentals, the US economy is still
growing at over 2% we think in 2025. And
by the way, we do think earnings growth,
S&P broadly, corporate earnings are up
about 14% potentially in 2026 as well.
And so uh we think those two factors
alone, stronger economy and better
earnings growth underpins the
fundamentals. And keep in mind when you
think about prolonged bare markets,
deeper prolonged bare markets, typically
they occur when an economy is heading
into a recession or the Fed is raising
rates aggressively. And those are not
two scenarios we see on the horizon.
When you say fundamentals, I'm not sure
exactly what fundamentals to look at.
When I look at earnings, they look okay.
I hear software names that are going to
get tanked by AI and then you see their
earnings and they look pretty good.
They're actually growing really well. At
what point will those fundamentals start
to matter?
>> Yeah, you know, I think certainly um
there has been a disconnect between what
we're seeing in earnings fundamentals
where some of the AI and AI potentially
disrupted parts of the market and and
how uh you know their underlying sales
and growth are actually turning up in
the quarterly reports. Now that I think
there has been a bit of sell first, ask
questions later. Um but we will see as
this AI economy plays out over the next
12 24 months um whether or not a lot of
these fears come to fruition. And in our
view um what we're seeing in the
marketplace is probably a a massive
front running of what actually may
happen and what actually may play out
not only not in one to two years but
perhaps 3 to 5 years. And so perhaps uh
there will be opportunities in some of
those beaten up sectors along the way.
Um but for now our recommendation is uh
stay in areas you know we like large cap
and and midcap stocks but within the
sector preferences. We continue to like
areas like industrials here. We continue
from a regional basis to like areas like
EM and parts of international um which
are offering that earnings upside and
maybe some diversification away from US
large cap uh software names and uh we do
like areas you know within investment
grade markets as well.
>> Have you gotten more pessimistic just in
general about overall US equity returns
this year as we do see this churn and
this lack of big tech reclaiming some
leadership?
Yeah, you know, I think generally um S&P
returns are driven by two factors and
those are earnings growth and valuation
expansion and the earnings growth we
talked about we think fundamentally
remains sound intact. The valuation part
of the story we think has come to the
forefront and certainly we've seen
higher value parts of the market really
the winners of last year as well if you
think about tech and financials
underperforming but do we see scope for
valuation uh expansion in parts of the
market that might have some room for
catchup um think about some of those
cyclical industrial parts of the market
we think in an environment where the Fed
maybe still has one to two rate cuts
ahead of it we have seen interest rates
gradually move lower that uh potential
scope for valuation catchup in parts of
the market that haven't really seen much
leadership. We do see some hope there
and so we think both parts earnings
growth um certainly in a broader market
sense but valuation expansion we think
comes just from those uh maybe catchup
potential players.
>> Mona, I know you spent some time on the
Supreme Court decision and what the
tariff policy now means for corporate
America. If there are refunds, what do
you think corporate America, Lisa's
brought up this point a lot, does with
that money?
>> Yeah. Uh it's a good question and you
know look so far the scope for refunds
has been pretty limited. Um you know we
heard the president talk on Friday about
may take years in the courts. Uh there
has been no mechanism put in place. Uh
we don't see yet how the refund u
process could could play out. But if we
do see refunds we do think one uh it
does put money back in the hands of
corporations who have been spending on
areas like capex. We know from a tax
perspective, capex certainly uh is more
attractive in 2026 and going forward. Um
and we also think you know when we think
about areas like you know a lot of
companies have had to absorb higher
prices from in inflated tariffs and
perhaps their margins have taken a hit
and so perhaps they do things like share
buybacks or buying back their own stock
if they think it's attractive. And so
there is potential for for a bit of both
uh financial engineering as well as
capex spending we think coming from the
corporations. But more broadly we'd say
interesting to note that despite the
elevated tariffs really since liberation
day last year um tariffs have not had
that outsized impact on inflationary
pressures that that were at least the
worst of many fears and we've continued
to see an economy that holds up.
>> True. Mona good to see you. Thank you.
Manahan there of Edward Jones. You
alluded to EM EM equities up double
digits so far year today. Checked in on
the Cosby again. South Korean equities
up 42% year today.
>> You mean Samsung's up 42%. Two names.
Two names on the
>> let's be honest. But at the same time
outside of the US, how much are people
saying, well, it's a great time to go
outside the US because growth is
expanding there. And guess what? We can
be insulated from all of these stories
versus fundamentals and all these
questions around exactly wither AI. And
I think that that's also pushing people
to the certainty of Samsung. There was
this stable fat multiple on US equities
and now there's a question mark above it
and we've had an earnings driven rally
through last year and now the question
mark for the year ahead is whether we
have a multiple driven correction for
the year ahead. Now while we're having
that debate and working out what wins
and loses in this country there's some
certainty as to what wins elsewhere and
that's where I think the confidence is
coming from. What's fascinating is in
some ways this is an endorsement of the
Chinese model over the US model where
they're going more into asset light
models and going into the software tied
to AI and not necessarily the hardware
building out the data centers and just
the scope of this which really
highlights some of the battles that
we're seeing in some of Anthropic's
recent missives about what's being
stolen from them in terms of their IP
from Chinese uh uh software engineers.
But these are some of the discussions
going on under the hood.
>> We'll talk about the data centers with
Ed Lello in just a moment. So stay tuned
for that. Equities on the S&P just about
unchanged. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Shares of Nova Nordisk falling
2.6% in the pre-market. The company
reportedly planning to slash the US list
prices for its popular weight loss and
diabetes drugs by up to 50%. The Wall
Street Journal reporting both WGOI and
ampic will sell for 600 $675 a month
beginning in 2027.
Paramount Sky Dance has raised its offer
to buy Warner Brothers Discovery. Sourc
is telling us here at Bloomberg the new
unspecified bid improves on Paramount's
$30 a share proposal made back in
December and addresses some concerns
around financing. If the Warner Brothers
board decides the new offer is superior
to its current agreement to sell assets
to Netflix, the streaming giant will
have four days to respond.
And the northeast digging out of a
powerful winter storm that dumped 20
inches of snow on New York Central Park
and and more snow may be on the way. The
US weather prediction center saying the
stretch from New York to Boston could
see a few inches Thursday night into
Friday. The center also saying a more
robust storm could arrive by the middle
of next week. Mr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the morning
cause plus we'll catch up with Beth
Kindig of IO fun previewing results from
Nvidia and catch up with Ed Law on that
breaking news out of Meta and AMD from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
All of these questions that we're seeing
jostle markets around are effectively
challenging that notion about asset
light businesses about high ROIC and
this is the market saying that we do not
think your earnings power today should
be infinitely capitalized into the
future at its current run rate.
>> So what does that mean for the multiple
on some of these tech names? That's the
question that Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth is asking and others as well.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 just about
unchanged on the Nasdaq positive by
0.26.
We'll talk about AMD in just a moment.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, Deutsche
Bank downing blue to hold with a street
low price target of $10, noting a
challenging environment for net flows.
That name is down again this morning by
2%. Your second call from JP Morgan
cutting its price target on workday,
highlighting a deceleration in bookings
growth. And finally, Wells Fargo
upgrading Qualcomm to equal weight,
calling its data center opportunity
underappreciated. That name is up in a
pre-market by more than 2%. Let's stick
with Tech Meta committing to spending
billions of dollars on AMD data center
gear over the next 5 years. Blindbase Ed
Lllo has a story. Ed, that is quite a
move for that name. Up 9%.
>> Yeah, it's very large scale deployment.
So it's 6 gawatt in phases and you know
it kind of replicates the structure that
AMD has already done with um open AI a
similar sort of arrangement where uh
they are kind of getting into the bigger
leagues closing the gap on on Nvidia in
this market overall you know AMD does10
billion of of revenue each quarter all
told Nvidia's just data center segment
is $50 billion so they're still a ways
off but you know what is interesting
about this is in particular is it's
AMD's kind of latest generation um
acceleratorbased system the MI450 and
what they're really talking up is that
you basically say to Meta okay let's do
this together for 5 years your engineers
come and work with our engineers and you
can help us install the systems and that
kind of projects quite a lot of
confidence for the market toward meta uh
toward AMD in particular
>> so Ed Lisa asked the question earlier we
know what the capex intentions are for
the year ahead and probably beyond and
yet these stocks have been held back
somewhat, notably Nvidia over the past
several months. Ed, what gives? Where's
the news here?
>> Yeah, I I I mean the capital
expenditures get stated and then an
assessment was made on on the health of
that the the portion of capital
expenditures um and its impact of c on
cash flow. For example, it's very likely
that that Amazon as a hyperscaler will
at some point flip into negative free
cash flow, which everyone is completely
calm about. Meta is not a hyperscaler.
doesn't sell cloud computing services
but the scale of its infrastructure that
it operates is the same right and it is
said $600 billion there or thereabouts
over the next few years and and Mark
Zuckerberg has gone a little bit beyond
that saying that actually in the scheme
of things it's absolutely okay if they
spend a couple hundred billion dollars
um missspend it is how he put it or
incorrectly the risk of not spending it
is greater and you know on any given day
in reaction to earnings as long as that
company shows topline growth and it
bread and out of business. The market is
either okay or not okay with that.
>> And it's good to see you as always.
Looking forward to the program Ed Lllo a
little bit later on this morning with
Bloomberg Technology. We heard the same
thing from Alphabet. The bigger risk
here is underinvesting and not over
investing. They said that what two
summers ago and we've seen the numbers
climb ever since.
>> Yeah. And ultimately it was received
pretty well back then and right now it's
not being received in the same way. What
has changed? And I think that is really
the question especially as people talk
about how this is going to be a gamecher
for the entire economy. The next stop of
course for big tech Nvidia results
coming out after the closing bow
tomorrow. Beth Kindig of IO Fund a tech
focused stock portfolio writing Nvidia
delivered it strongest sequential growth
since Q423 last quarter. Blackwell Ultra
will likely continue this strong
momentum. Beth joins us now for more.
Beth, welcome back. Let's just start
with Nvidia and why this bull market,
this rally has stalled even though these
big tech names are putting up some major
capex intentions.
Yeah, I guess I would counter and just
say typically the market all along has
misjudged Nvidia and many other AI
semiconductors and AI hardware players.
There has never really been a moment in
the last three years where the market
got it except for maybe that one big
blowout report with Nvidia. What they're
missing now is that the way these GPU
generations work is that they ship in
volume production which means the strong
quarter we saw um you know last quarter
which was one of the highest in two
years. It's saying a lot this company
easily comfortably beats
basically every quarter. So saying a lot
that it's the biggest beat in two years.
uh is likely to continue to flow. That
momentum is likely to continue because
GPU generations are are it's shipping in
volume. It's in production volume right
now. So the what the market is missing
is by keeping this stock rangebound,
it's now a valuation story. We're no
longer at the Leo's Blackwell Ultra
shipping is how how big of a deal is Ver
Rubin? We're at this stock is dirt cheap
because it continued to be it continued
to put up strong quarters and now uh the
market kept it rangebound. So personally
the way I look at this is it's a
valuation u story going into tomorrow
night.
>> Calling it dirt cheap after it rose to
be 4 trillion and then nearly $5
trillion of valuation is definitely a
bold call. Beth I just wonder to make it
simple how low is the bar right now for
Nvidia to just sort of step over
tomorrow afternoon.
>> Yeah I would just counter and say I did
not say the market cap was cheap. I said
the valuation is cheap which means on a
sales uh ratio and an earnings ratio
we're looking at April lows. So I do
want to make sure I clarify that.
>> Understood. I just wondering though
going forward given the fact that they
have increased their revenues to such a
big degree and frankly there will be
more coming uh with respect to Meta and
with respect to Microsoft and Google and
the others. I'm just wondering how low
the bar is. I mean I do think that
essentially if they show what they've
been spending even if they do have a big
capex plan that they announce that it
will be well wellreceived.
I think going back to your point that
this is a this is the world's most
valuable company that there is not a low
bar for Nvidia. I think the bar is
always very high and what I'm saying is
that because the way these GPU
generations ship we're in volume
production on Blackwell Ultra that bar
will likely be cleared uh this quarter
where I you know I I look at this
forward and backward of course and very
close to this stock. Uh what we want
moving forward is a smooth handoff to
Vera Rubin. Uh, we want to make sure
that that generation ships on time. That
is where I'm focused at this point
because Blackwell Ultra is pretty much
priced in.
>> Beth, do you think there are some doubts
around that? Then
>> there are only doubts because there was
uh a little bit of a rough handoff to
Blackwell. We had about a six-month
delay on Blackwell and that is actually
showing up a lot in this rangebound
price action we've seen over the last
year. uh the market has gotten
complacent over the fact that there were
these these shipping delays uh and it's
simply because Nvidia continues to uh
challenge what is possible uh with
compute. So there can often be moments
where while doing that um you know the
way that it's um built qualified and
shipped there can sometimes be some
delays. I don't know that I think Vera
Rubin's on time, but it's still
something that you have to watch because
they're doing basically the impossible.
>> You're right to raise the question.
Beth, it's good to see you. Thanks for
jumping on. Beth Kendig there of IO Fund
on Nvidia, a name that she herself, as
she says, is close to. Looking forward
to that report tomorrow after the close.
>> Yeah, and you pointed out that it's been
rangebounded. It's been far below where
it's got reached in terms of a record
high. Even amid all of this capex
spending, is it because of the Blackwell
handoff? Is it because of some of the
questions around China? Is it because of
memory snags in terms of just supply
chain constraints? Look, I'm curious how
low the bar is or are there some real
fundamental concerns about valuations
based on some of these kinks in the
armor that people have been pointing to?
>> Also, what's going on with OpenAI and
Nvidia? We talked about this yesterday.
They're pledging 30 billion. What
happened to the hundred billion they
were pledging to go into OpenAI? That
invitation Jensen Wong has spoken about.
I imagine that's going to be a big
question tomorrow on the earnings call
as Looking forward to that call without
a doubt and looking forward to the
coverage from Ed Ledllo who joined us a
little bit earlier on AMD. AMD in the
pre-market. Just an update there up
still by close to 10% in early trading.
Nvidia is down by about 0.6%.
The opening bounds just around the
corner. In a moment we'll catch up with
David Seath of Namura. He's calling for
two more interest rate cuts this year.
Plenty of Fed speak over the past few
days. You'll get more a little bit
later. And they're weighing in on AI and
what it means for the labor market. And
that is the debate of the moment as GDP
growth has been pretty decent over the
last 12 months, but payroll's growth has
been really really muted. Plus, we'll
get you some morning movers. Danny's
going to drop by and break down a couple
of things into it up by 7.36%.
A partnership with Anthropic. We'll
discuss that in just a moment. From New
York City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
Equities
are positive by a tenth of 1% on the S&P
500. Likewise on the NASDAQ up by 0.4.
The cash open 60 minutes away. AMD the
big mover this morning. Let's get your
morning movers. Danny has more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. And it's all thanks to Meta
sealing a deal with them to power a 6
gawatt data center. And it will be all
using AMD computers, processors. They're
also going to get warrants to buy AMD
shares. Lisa Sue says that this is a
deal worth in the multi-billions. We
don't have the exact price tag, but it
is enough to send shares higher by 10%.
I also want to linger on in it shares
for just a moment announcing not that
long ago that they are reaching a deal
with anthropic to power AI agents to
their offerings to companies and
different users 7%. The reason I think
this is interesting is Catrini's
research report yesterday talked about
this world in which the very companies
who are being disrupted are the ones who
are paying and spending on AI spending
on their own destru disruption. Anyway,
that's not what's being priced in. It's
a 7% rally in the pre-market this
morning. Uh finally ending with another
sore spot for this market and it is Blue
Owl falling yet again two and a half%
this time the catalyst Deutsche Bank
downgrading Blue Owl to a street low
price target. It is a back and forth.
Yesterday Bank of America said that it
was misinformation. The selling was
overdone. So the two analysts clearly
disagreeing on that but the drama
continues. John
>> the stock cut in half in the last 12
months. Danny, thank you. The name down
by another 2%. More from Danny and Matt
Miller in about 30 minutes to guide you
into the open up and bow. Let's turn to
the economy. Fed Governor Christopher
Waller saying the chance for March rate
cut is a coin flip.
>> If the labor market data for February
are consistent with the stronger job
creation, it may be appropriate to hold
the FOMC's policy rate at current
levels. If the good labor market news of
January is revised away or evaporates in
February, it would support my position
at the FOMC's last meeting and that such
a cut should be made at the March
meeting. I rate these two possible
outcomes as close to a coin flip.
>> That is a change for Governor Wallet.
Bloomberg's Michael McKe joins us now
from the National Association of
Business Economics Policy Conference in
Washington DC. Mike, welcome to the
program. It feels like the tone is
shifting somewhat. What are you hearing?
>> The tone is definitely shifting. It's
similar to what we heard at PAL's news
conference after the last meeting that
maybe inflation is becoming a bigger
issue. And as far as Chris Waller's
concerned, you take a look at what we
got from ADP this morning. Their weekly
number, 12,750,
is the fourth week in a row that they've
reported higher levels of hiring. So, it
may be that we get a fairly strong
report a week from Friday. And that may
keep Chris Waller on the sidelines. This
morning, Austin Goulby, the Chicago Fed
president, is speaking and he's
basically taking the opposite position
from Chris Waller that it is important
to make sure that the jobs market stays
healthy, but that inflation is the
bigger problem. And he says he's unless
he sees uh inflation going down, he's
not going to be voting for more rate
cuts for the time being. In his speech,
he says, "I feel that front-loading too
many rate cuts is not prudent." In every
economic survey we have seen, and in the
many meetings we've had with businesses
and consumers across the seventh
district, people expressed that prices
are one of their most pressing concerns.
Let's pay attention. Now, if inflation
does start to go down, Goulby says that
he is willing to consider the idea of
further rate cuts. In fact, he thinks
they could have as many as two by the
end of the year, but he's got to see
that progress. We'll have plenty of
other Feds speak today that you can try
to glean clues from, but maybe the
number of the week is going to be PPI on
Friday. We've got the uh weaker than
expected CPI numbers for January. This
is PPI for January, and they can put
together the PCE number, which is the
one the Fed follows after we get PPI, so
we'll have a better idea of whether
those inflation numbers are coming down.
Mike, looking forward to the Fed
speaking later, of course, with you and
the Chicago Fed president at 9:30
Eastern time, I believe. So, about an
hour from now. Mike, I want your view on
the elephant in the room. What's hiring?
What's holding back hiring at the
moment? And what is the influence of AI?
What are they saying about that at the
conference at the moment?
>> Well, most people here say they don't
really know for sure, but the feeling is
it's not AI at the moment. It's the
uncertainty caused by the
administration's fiscal policies, trade
policies. Companies don't know what is
going to happen in the future. You layer
on some AI uh in un certainty to that
and you have a reason for companies to
be cautious in hiring. uh Aston Gilby
met with some of us last night and he
talked about that and said that uh for
him it's more important to look at the
rates the unemployment rate the hiring
rate than the absolute level of jobs
because at this point u we're having
problems with the labor supply it's gone
way down and because we don't know
what's going to happen with trade policy
going forward
>> Mike McKe thank you sir you take a break
we'll see you in 60 minutes again Mike
McKe 9:30 Eastern time catching up with
the Chicago Fed President Austin Goulsby
sticking with the Fed David Se of Neora
writing, "We continue to expect two Fed
rate cuts this year, both occurring
under wash." David joins us now for
more. David, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's get to that Wallace speech. So,
here's a direct quote. I can't dismiss
the possibility that the labor market
data has pivoted to a more solid
footing. We've heard this a few times
now. Central to all of this is whether
that jobs report more recently was a
one-off or not. Where do you stand on
that?
>> Well, we certainly don't think that
we're going to get in the 170k uh per
month on an ongoing basis. Um but we do
think that it that uh the labor market
has been somewhat stronger than people
uh had thought it was going into that
report. And I think this is a a clear
signal that uh it is not as bad as
people thought. So we we see high
fivedigit to low sixdigit prints um on a
regular basis later this year. That
certainly looks poor compared to about
two or three years ago, but it's a lot
better than we got for most of 2025. I
think the central idea to all of this is
that you can have a deceleration in jobs
growth without an increase of slack in
the labor market and anchoring that view
is the unemployment rate. Is that a good
measure of the labor market? Mike gave a
nod to it. What's your view on it?
>> Oh yeah, we we think it's a a very
important thing and more importantly
irrespective of what we think we think
the Fed thinks that it's an important
measure. So it is clearly key to look
at. I think especially right now for all
the problems that the unemployment rate
calculation has, it is very good at
dealing with the fact that demographics
are changing perhaps more sharply than
people even realize right now. And so
how do you evaluate a number on NFP
today when the population is growing
pretty slowly, if at all versus just a
few years ago when it was growing much
more quickly? Well, the unemployment
rate cuts through all of that. And so I
think that's a key reason the Fed,
especially now, is really looking at it.
Do you see inflation as taking on a
greater uh emphasis right now just
simply because there is a sort of stasis
in the labor market and there does seem
to be questions around just how strong
or and certainly that it hasn't
necessarily been as weak as many people
expect.
>> I think generally speaking the trend is
really still focused on um on the labor
market more than on inflation. Um
certainly a pickup in inflation would be
something that uh the Fed would have to
take notice of. Uh we can all point out
and we certainly have at Neora that this
is going to be the sixth straight year
it looks like where the Fed has missed
to the upside on inflation but it seems
that by and large Fed officials have uh
in their own way made made peace with
that. They they've continued to push
through a bunch of cuts even though
inflation was above target. And although
you do definitely see uh a a lot of uh
Fed speakers who are pushing back on
that and b um a hawkish shift in things,
I think most of what is driving changes
in the narratives right now is what's
happening in the labor market. And it's
despite the fact that we see uh
inflation continuing to be above target
that we think that uh incoming uh share
wars will be able to push through two
cuts pretty quickly.
>> You know, John alluded to the questions
around AI and what this would do to the
labor market. And uh what we heard from
Chris Waller yesterday, the thing with
AI is it's coming at us so fast that
it's easy to start seeing jobs that may
go away before you see the new jobs that
are going to be created. He went on to
say, I either think that you'll see some
return to job growth coming in the next
year or we're in a period of economic
activity. I've never seen before in my
life. There is a question about whether
we are in a sea change regime. What's
the Fed response if we do see some sort
of job cannibalization from artificial
intelligence?
>> I think if we were to see, and it's a
big if, I want to be clear, but if we
were to see uh massive job losses
without um close to an equal number of
job gains, not our central case, but if
that were to happen, then I think that
then a doubish response is is really
required here.
>> Why do you think that's the base case? I
think that that historically, you know,
we've had 250 275 years since the
industrial revolution started. We have
had breakthrough technologies throughout
history. Maybe AI is going to trump them
all. But time and again, we've said, oh,
you know, what's going to happen to all
the coal miners now that we have the
steam engine? What's going to happen to
all the people who take care of the
horses now that uh we have cars? And
time and again, yes, there have been
segments of the population that have
lost very badly with new changes. But by
and large, we have without exception
seen the economy end up not just with
higher growth, but with uh more jobs,
jobs being created that would never have
been imagined without um uh prior to
that technology uh coming uh coming to
bear. So, I think that, you know, as
much as it's very easy to see jobs that
could be lost under AI, it's much harder
and requires more imagination to figure
out what jobs would be created, doesn't
mean it's not going to happen. It it
really has historically.
>> When it comes to this year and the two
cuts that you say happened under Kevin
Walsh,
>> yeah,
>> when do we see Kevin Worsh actually take
the helm of the Federal Reserve?
>> I think I think Kevin Worsh will be
there uh for what what is scheduled to
be his first meeting in June. Uh yes,
there's a lot of wood to chop, so to
speak, but the president has shown that
he can get uh nominations through pretty
quickly when he needs to. We got got the
the Myin uh nomination through in about
6 weeks. Uh so I I I think he'll be
there in time for that. And our thought
is that at his very first meeting uh he
will push through uh the first of of two
rate cuts for the year.
>> And when it comes to the composition of
the Fed, does it mean Jay Pal leaves and
Steve Meyer gets nominated to that
chair? Uh, I think that uh I think Steve
Meyer will probably have to give up his
seat for Kevin Worsh. He would certainly
be at the top of my list for people who
are likely to get uh uh open seats under
Trump.
>> David, it's interesting you think he'll
get what he wants at the June meeting.
Given the picture of things that I'm
getting from the Federal Reserve right
now, that does not look like a committee
that's ready to reduce interest rates.
How much power do you think the Fed
chair still has?
>> Well, I think this is going to be a
really interesting dynamic. And I will
say that when we look a little bit
further down the road, I do think that
uh there's going to be more limitations
on Kevin Worsh's Fed chair than there
have been probably on any uh Fed chair
since Vulkar. Uh so 45 years where the
Fed chair is no longer a de facto
dictator. That said, I don't think it's
going to happen in his very first
meeting. And I think it takes it's not
like flipping a switch, right? There's a
lot of institutional inertia where the
Fed chair is able to push.
>> David, how does this actually work in
practice? And you know better than I do.
Yeah.
>> Just because he turns up, we will sit
around a table and go, he's the new guy.
Let him get what he wants for a meeting.
>> We still have, despite a lot of the
hawkish Fed speak over the past week
since uh since the job numbers came out.
We still have an FOMC that if you look
at the dot plot makes it look like of
the 19 people on there, um 17 or 18 are
in favor of additional cuts. And I think
that if Kevin Worsh comes in and says,
"Okay, everybody, it's time to go ahead
and cut now." Um, a lot of them are
either going to just say, "Okay, I was
on board with that." Or might not have
been on board with this quite this
early, but I don't I'm not going to I'm
not going to sort of defy the new Fed
chair uh right away. Now, if if uh
Governor if uh Chair Worsh is able to
push through a couple of cuts and then
he wants to go for more, it's a big if,
but if he does want to and inflation is
still high and job growth is becoming
more robust and the unemployment rate is
falling, then we could start to get real
votes on the FOMC where it starts to
look like, hey, wait a minute, we got to
count the votes. It's not just the Fed
chair gets whatever he wants.
>> Real votes. That's a novelty, eh?
>> It would be for the Fed. It sure would
be.
>> That would be fun. David Sea of Namora
Securities International. Thank you,
sir. It's good to see you. Pleasure.
It's going to be an interesting six
months. I don't think anyone really
knows what we're going to get in any
way, shape, or form. We've got a
baseline. There's another baseline for
two cuts later this year, but around
that, a lot of doubt.
>> Baseline is doing a lot of heavy lifting
this morning. I think that Tom Tillis
doesn't really know either because
there's a lot of uh contingencies to
even have the hearing in the first
place.
>> And it was interesting because Bob
Michael of JP Morgan had a little bit of
constonation about how quickly this will
be and he put that emphasis on nominated
Fed chair. So basically saying this
could be very noisy and to your point
there's no date on the calendar yet to
start that hearing.
>> The calendar is empty. We'll see what we
get. Equity futures turn in higher by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P with an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us. Here's
Yhierra. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Meta announcing a blockbuster
deal with AMD. Those shares up 10% in
the pre-market. The Facebook owner will
spend billions of dollars on AMD data
center gear over the next 5 years. Meta
will also receive warnings to buy 160
million AMD shares. Those shares will
vest when the project and AMD stock
reach certain milestones, turning Meta
into a major shareholder. Last week,
Meta announced a tie-up with AMD rival
Nvidia.
Meanwhile, Warner Brothers Discovery
confirming our story that it received a
revised proposal from Paramount. The new
bid improves on its $30 a share offer
and addresses concerns, including
certainty of financing. Warner Brothers
says it's reviewing the offer, but its
board continues to recommend a deal with
Netflix.
And President Donald Trump invited both
the men's and women's gold medal hockey
teams to attend the State of the Union
tonight. The women's team declined,
while many of the men's team are
planning to attend. You can watch
Bloomberg's coverage of the State of the
Union starting at 8:00 p.m. Eastern.
will have full coverage and analysis of
the president's speech, plus the
Democrat's response. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Based on the scenes
we've seen, without a doubt, they're
attending that hung over. Without a
doubt.
>> Oh my god. They were at 11 last night in
Miami. Yeah. All I can say, I think it's
going to be a really interesting
contrast to have the hockey team next to
the Supreme Court justices.
>> Yeah, that talking about both. I just
think it's going to be really
interesting.
>> That vibe's going to be different
without a doubt. A welland hangover,
that's for sure. Up next on the program
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus,
Matt Stucky of Northwestern Mutual
looking for the next names to benefit
from AI from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
I'm not worried about credit here as
long as recession isn't on the horizon.
And right now, recession seems a long
way off. The first lost pieces of
structured credit, much like that '05
to07 period are starting to crack. Now,
history doesn't perfectly repeat, but it
rhymes. It's something to keep an eye
on. The bond market guys feel good at
the moment. That was Bob Michael of JP
Morgan Asset Management feeling good
about Treasury yields close to the lows
of the year just about unchanged the
tenure at the moment just north of 4%.
The equity guys dazed and confused
beneath the surface particularly beneath
the index level. The S&P 500 at the
moment wild sector moves single name
moves at the index level. 2% away from
all-time highs on the S&P 500. Amazing.
The NASDAQ up by another 0.5% this
morning. The opening bow about 41
minutes away. Going into that opening
bow, here's the trading diary of the
week ahead. Today, tons and tons of
Fedsby from Goulsby, Waller, Collins,
Boston, and Cook. Then we get some
consumer confidence data at 10:00 a.m.
Look out for that ahead of this. It
could set the tone for it. The president
delivering a state of the union address
at 9:00 p.m. Eastern time. Then
tomorrow, we hit the ground running.
Nvidia earnings after the closing bell.
Thursday, another round of jobless
claims. Friday, PPI data. Let's turn
back to equities. Stocks recovering
slightly following another sell-off
driven by AI disruption fears. Matt Stie
of Northwestern Mutual writing, "We like
owning the constraints to the AI
buildout and contemplating the next
phase of beneficiaries." Matt, join us
now for more. Matt, welcome to the
program. Let's contemplate that now.
What is the next phase of beneficiaries?
>> Well, I I think in terms of the next
phase of this, it's turning all the
investment into returns as it relates to
corporate America. We've had a lot of
pilots that have been rolled out in
terms of, you know, companies testing
this technology. Now, it's time to
probably start to see that impact of P&L
either through expense reduction or
through revenue generation. And so, you
know, that's kind of I think how to
think about 2026 and companies that can
help facilitate that. To me, I think are
are in a prime position to see maybe
some business accelerate as we look
forward to the to this year.
>> Matt, is this going to be a single name
story or a sector story? Should we
expect lots of bifocation or a tide that
lifts all boats?
you know, I think it's bifurcation, but
at the same time, I think it's going to
be a more volatile bifurcation and and
let me kind of explain what that means.
Um, certainly there's going to be a lot
of of headlines. We've seen that in
spades so far this year. And, you know,
just today, you know, we're going to get
another update from Anthropic in terms
of enterprise agents, and I'm sure I'm
sure this going to cause some additional
single stock volatility that we've seen
impact software in addition to insurance
and financial services names. Um and so
diversification is is is is paramount I
think in these types of environments.
However, you know, underneath the
surface that broadening is continuing
and it's continuing um in areas like
consumer staples which you know from
that perspective would make you you know
cautious in terms of you know why is
consumer staples leader uh leading this
market higher. Uh but then you also look
at the weight S&P that's up 5 a.5%
similar to small cap against a tape in
the S&P 500 that's flat on the year. So
there's mixed signals and I think that
just um my take on that is it's simply
just you know broadening away from some
of the the mega cap leadership that
we've seen the last few years.
>> It seems like Matt a lot of people want
to avoid the volatility. They want to
avoid software. They want to avoid at
this point financials that might be
subject to some sort of disruption. At
what point do you go back in? At what
point do you say, "Okay, there actually
uh may be some dislocations here that I
could take advantage of rather than just
hiding out in consumer staples."
>> That's a really good question. I think
it's really difficult to dispro to
disprove something that isn't really
happening yet, right? So you have a
narrative attached to these stocks
whether it's you know financial
financial services names like S&P Global
you know where there's concerns about um
some of their u uh some of their data
business or whether it's software names
where you know historically these
businesses were systems of record now
you have competing systems of
intelligence and who's going to win that
battle back and forth um the reality is
probably just going to take time and how
do you trade through those environments
I think you know to the point I made
earlier diversification is your best
friend in those environments along with,
you know, a longer term time horizon.
Um, you know, just the structure of the
market today with so much more
participation with the retail trader,
uh, and so much more participation in
terms of pod shops, you know, trading
these names back and forth. Volatility
is probably to be expected to be
elevated for a while. Um, so to me, in
terms of how you navigate that, I think
there's a few things that you got to
keep front and center in terms of of
what you're looking at. One is, you
know, what are what's the long-term
business fundamentals and and how do how
does artificial intelligence potentially
change that? what's the valuation
context that you're entering in and
marrying that with a reasonable time
horizon is probably the best way to
navigate this environment.
>> Is it also to just avoid the United
States for now and just go elsewhere
especially given the fact that a lot of
people see it as undervalued?
>> Uh you know I don't think I would go
that far. Uh you know certainly we uh we
we preach diversification outside the
United States as well but you know if
you're looking at you know some some
positive earnings revisions trends you
know it's can be found in the United
States as well. It's not just US large
caps anymore or tech anymore. It is
small caps. It is midcaps. And in fact,
if you go back to May of 2025, one of
the areas of the strongest earnings
revisions up into the right is is small
cap stocks. And so I think that's an
important part of a portfolio. And and I
think you know if you're looking at just
overall kind of portfolio construction
today, the US may be a major component
of that. When you see deals like this
morning with into it and Anthropic, is
it time maybe to look at some of these
software companies think they're the
ones that could benefit from all these
changes?
>> Well, I think if there's a bullcase for
artificial intelligence that, you know,
somebody's going to win a lot longer
term. I think you have to discount maybe
a percentage probability that some of
the incumbents are going to win a piece
of that prize. And it seems like at
least so far this year that prize has
been at the expense of the incumbents
and and gravitating towards more of the
the semiconductor names and the frontier
LLMs, you know, the likes of Anthropic.
The question is is whether or not, you
know, these systems of record that own
rich data sets that are owned by, you
know, these enterprises across the
Fortune 500 can integrate AI
functionality through APIs from the
foundational LLMs. whether or not that
can can be a solution longer term to
keep them front and center in terms of
their ability to provide value to to
enterprises across the Fortune 500. I
think u I'm open-minded to that outcome.
Uh and the announcement this morning
from from Intuit might be a a framework
for how this goes forward. It's just the
question of sustainability whether or
not this is going to continue in terms
of these types of announcements and you
certainly need those types of headlines
if if you're bullish on software from
this point. Hey Matt, it's good to see
you. Thanks for dropping by. Matt Stucky
there of Northwestern Mutual Wealth
Management. The final point there,
partner or get eaten seems to be the
theme at the moment.
>> Yeah, the problem is is that even if you
do partner, you could also still get
eaten. I mean, it's sort of this
interesting. Uh so the CEO of Anthropic,
there was a podcast that I found really
interesting a couple weeks ago and he
said the reason why software is getting
cannibalized first is because these
professionals are the most adjacent to
uh a lot of the AI. So they're most
likely to adopt it first and then get
cannibalized by it. So, it becomes this
very sort of self-fulfilling prophecy.
At what point does the machine eat you?
Well, that's a good point. I don't think
we're there yet, but that's why some of
these software companies are in a prime
position, though. They have all the work
set up to just make their software so
much better using AI. I think then the
bigger question is, do they need less
people? And I wonder if the next wave is
going to be potentially some of the
layoffs at these companies.
>> I think that's a central question for us
all at the moment for more reasons than
one. Elsewhere, the equity market
positive by two ten of 1% on the S&P.
The open and bow just around the corner
34 minutes away. Coming up tomorrow,
Julian Emanuel of Evercore, Kate Moore
of City, the Port of LA executive
director Gene Soka and the US trade
representative Jameson Greer following
the president's address to the nation
later on this evening. From New York
City this morning, good morning. Thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.